Glorifying God When On Hold 

May those who delight in my vindication shout for joy and gladness.  

(Psalm 35:27) 

“Lord,” said Martha to Jesus. “if you had been here, my brother would not have died” (John 
11:21). She and her sister, Mary, had sent word two days before to Jesus that their brother, 
Lazarus, was ill. But Jesus had tarried where He was, and now it seemed too late – their 
brother had died. 

Sometimes, we all feel like Mary and Martha, desperate for Jesus to show up exactly when 
we need Him to show up. Yet when God delays in answering our prayers (such as the 
healing of Lazarus – it didn’t happen), it is for the purpose of answering in a different way 
(such as raising Lazarus from the dead). God does this so that He will receive more glory and 
so that we will know He is God. As Jesus said to His disciples: 

‘This illness will not end in death. No, it is for God’s glory so that God’s Son may be glorified 
through it’ (John 11:4). 

When God delays in prospering our business or promoting our newest product, it is so that 
we may die to our own ideas, our own egos. After the delay, we often experience the joy of 
experiencing God’s best for us.  

As the psalmist states, “May those who delight in my vindication shout for joy and 
gladness.” When God vindicates His servant leaders, He does so that we may shout for joy 
and gladness and say, “The Lord be exalted, who delights in the wellbeing of His servants” 
(Psalm 35:27). 

In my career and business, I seek to find this vision that will enable me to press through the 
difficulties and sacrifices that come with pursuing His purpose. The one common theme that 
has the capacity to cause me to pull together in harmony and without self-destruction is the 
glory of God. The long delay, the death of self, the growing desire for God’s fame, the 
eventual vindication …. I will experience them all as the theory and practice of doing 
business with God converge.  

Brett Johnson 

Point To Ponder 

God sometimes puts us on hold so that, after the wait, there is less of us and 
more of Him. 

Source: Devotional Ventures 

 
 
 
 
 
