training
    Why is training so important?
    
    Training is an essential part of owning a
    dog and can be started at any age.
    
    Training builds confidence, provides
    mental stimulation and strengthens the
    human-animal bond.

    https://loyal-companions.com/the-importance-of-training-your-dog/#:~:text=Why%20is%20training%20so%20important,Dogs%20are%20always%20learning.
    
    Dogs are always learning.
    
    It is never too late to start training.
    
    Dogs that have anxiety or more timid
    personalities can benefit from training.
    
    It provides a sense of accomplishment and
    provides a way for us to communicate with
    our four-legged family members.
    
    This strengthens the bond we have with our
    dogs through positive attention.
    
    Plus, they can spend time with us, which
    is what most dogs want, to be close to us.
    
    Mental stimulation is an important part of
    a dog’s overall well-being.
    
    It is just as vital as daily physical
    exercise.
    
    When it is too cold or rainy outside,
    going through basic training skills
    indoors can be the exercise our bored dogs
    need.
    
    Or if your dog must limit exercise due to
    an injury or after a surgery, mental
    stimulation is necessary to keep them
    occupied.

    Sometimes it is challenging for our dogs
    to understand what it is we are asking of
    them.
    
    This can cause frustration for both us and
    our dogs.
    
    Typically, what we think of as “bad”
    behavior is really normal dog behavior.
    
    These may include chewing on things or
    digging.
    
    Dogs explore their environment by using
    their noses, mouths and paws.
    
    If these normal behaviors are not used in
    an appropriate way, they can lead to
    trouble.
    
    Dogs will learn to do things when people
    are not around.
    
    Dogs have no concept of right or wrong.
    
    It is up to us to teach our dogs what is
    “right.” If a dog is taught to chew on
    toys, he/she will look for these instead
    of your shoes.
    
    The key is consistency with training and
    it can take a time to achieve the exact
    results you want.