Presto
    An open source distributed SQL query
    engine for running interactive analytic
    queries against data sources of all sizes
    ranging from gigabytes to petabytes.

    Presto was designed and written from the
    ground up for interactive analytics and
    approaches the speed of commercial data
    warehouses while scaling to the size of
    organizations like Facebook.

    Presto allows querying data where it
    lives, including Hive, Cassandra,
    relational databases or even proprietary
    data stores.
    
    A single Presto query can combine data
    from multiple sources, allowing for
    analytics across your entire organization.
    
    Presto is targeted at analysts who expect
    response times ranging from sub-second to
    minutes.
    
    Presto breaks the false choice between
    having fast analytics using an expensive
    commercial solution or using a slow "free"
    solution that requires excessive hardware.

ZooKeeper
    A centralized service for maintaining
    configuration information, naming,
    providing distributed synchronization, and
    providing group services.
    
    All of these kinds of services are used in
    some form or another by distributed
    applications.
    
    Each time they are implemented there is a
    lot of work that goes into fixing the bugs
    and race conditions that are inevitable.
    
    Because of the difficulty of implementing
    these kinds of services, applications
    initially usually skimp on them, which
    make them brittle in the presence of
    change and difficult to manage.
    
    Even when done correctly, different
    implementations of these services lead to
    management complexity when the
    applications are deployed.

Tika
    Detects and extracts metadata and text
    from over a thousand different file types
    (such as PPT, XLS, and PDF).
    
    All of these file types can be parsed
    through a single interface, making Tika
    useful for search engine indexing, content
    analysis, translation, and much more.
    
    You can find the latest release on the
    download page.
    
    Please see the Getting Started page for
    more information on how to start using
    Tika.
    
    The Parser and Detector pages describe the
    main interfaces of Tika and how they work.

    TODO: Make scope use tika.
    $SCRIPTS/scope.sh

Openmeetings
    [Apache project]

    Provides video conferencing, instant
    messaging, white board, collaborative
    document editing and other groupware
    tools.
    
    It uses API functions of Media Server for
    Remoting and Streaming Kurento.