1 Chronicles
    First Book of Chronicles in the Old
    Testament of the Christian Bible.

biblical literalists
    Believe that, unless a passage is clearly
    intended by the writer as allegory,
    poetry, or some other genre, the Bible
    should be interpreted as literal
    statements by the author.
    
    Critics argue that allegorical intent can
    be ambiguous.

Elias
Elijah
    A prophet in the Northern Kingdom of
    Israel in the 9th century BCE, mentioned
    in several holy books.
    
    Due to Elias' role in the scriptures and
    to many later associated traditions, the
    name is used as a personal name in
    numerous languages.

Synoptic Gospels
    The gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke are
    referred to as the synoptic Gospels
    because they include many of the same
    stories, often in a similar sequence and
    in similar or sometimes identical wording.
    
    They stand in contrast to John, whose
    content is largely distinct.

promulgation
    The formal proclamation or the declaration
    that a new statutory or administrative law
    is enacted after its final approval.
    
    In some jurisdictions, this additional
    step is necessary before the law can take
    effect.

Vulgate
    The Vulgate is a late-4th-century Latin
    translation of the Bible.
    
    It was to become the Catholic Church's
    officially promulgated Latin version of
    the Bible as the Sixtine Vulgate, then as
    the Clementine Vulgate; the Vulgate is
    still presently used in the Latin Church.

lectionary
    A book or listing that contains a
    collection of scripture readings appointed
    for Christian or Judaic worship on a given
    day or occasion.
    
    There are sub-types such as a "gospel
    lectionary" or evangeliary, and an
    epistolary with the readings from the New
    Testament Epistles.

Tetragrammaton
JHVH
YHWH
    the Hebrew name of God transliterated in
    four letters as YHWH or JHVH and
    articulated as Yahweh or Jehovah.

The Word of God
Faithful and True
    Has a name that only He knows.

    https://youtu.be/yHaPKGTu2hw?list=PLIxhnx0kb33ORn8RQgHH54rdJMmqaRfmd&t=3424

Naphtali
    Naphtali was the sixth son of Jacob and
    second son with Bilhah. He was the founder
    of the Israelite Tribe of Naphtali.

Pison
Gihon
Hiddekel
Tigris
Phirat
Euphrates
rivers of Eden
    Genesis 2:10–14 lists four rivers in
    association with the garden of Eden:
    
    Pishon, Gihon, Hiddekel (the Tigris), and
    Phirat (the Euphrates).
    
    It also refers to the land of
    Cush—translated/interpreted as Ethiopia,
    but thought by some to equate to Cossaea,
    a Greek name for the land of the Kassites.

Havilah
    Friedrich Delitzsch located the land of
    Havilah in the Syrian Desert, west and
    south of the Euphrates. P. Haupt, who
    regarded the Pishon as the belt of water
    formed by the Kerkha, Persian Gulf, and
    Red Sea, identified Havilah with Arabia.

tree of life
     Revelation of John 22:2

Holy One of Israel
    [[sps:nasb -s Holy One of Israel]]

Seth
    Genesis 4:25: And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his name Seth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew.
    Genesis 4:26: And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the Lord.
    Genesis 5:3: And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth:
    Genesis 5:4: And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters:
    Genesis 5:6: And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos:
    Genesis 5:7: And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters:
    Genesis 5:8: And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years: and he died.
    Luke 3:38: Which was the son of Enos, which was the son of Seth, which was the son of Adam, which was the son of God.

host of heaven
    Stars of heaven?

    Acts 7:42

Jerusalem

Bethlehem

sin
sinning
  - lawlessness
    - everyone who practices sin also practices lawlessness
  - a failure to love God and others by not treading them as they deserve
  - failure to love God
  - failure to love people
    - this is connected to loving God
      - for example when Joseph refuses to sleep with Pottifer he says, "How could I sin against God?"
  - a failure to be truly human
  - speaking lies
    - and ultimately, lying against what God says
  - a failure to be humans that fully love God and others
  - spiritual error/falsehood
    - cloudy spiritual vision
  - rebellion against the One True God revealed through God's Word, revealed through Jesus Christ
  - missing the mark of righteousness, holiness and perfection, which only Jesus Christ was able to make
  - our inability to judge whether we are succeeding or failing
  - the deep selfish impulse that drives much of our behaviour
- iniquity
  - behaviour that's crooked
- transgression
  - breaking trust

    Leviticus 19:18: You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the sons H1121 ben of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself; I am the Lord H3068 Yhovah.
    Matthew 5:43: “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love G25 agapao your neighbor and hate G3404 miseo your enemy.’
    Matthew 19:19: Honor your father G3962 pater and mother; and You shall love G25 agapao your neighbor as yourself.”
    Matthew 22:39: The second G1208 deuteros is like it, ‘You shall love G25 agapao your neighbor as yourself.’
    Mark 12:31: The second G1208 deuteros is this, ‘You shall love G25 agapao your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no other commandment G1785 entole greater than these.”
    Romans 13:9: For this, “You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,” and if there is any other commandment G1785 entole, it is summed up in this saying G3056 logos, “You shall love G25 agapao your neighbor as yourself.”
    Galatians 5:14: For the whole G3956 pas Law G3551 nomos is fulfilled in one word G3056 logos, in the statement, “You shall love G25 agapao your neighbor as yourself.”
    James 2:8: If, however, you are fulfilling G5055 teleo the royal law G3551 nomos according to the Scripture, “You shall love G25 agapao your neighbor as yourself,” you are doing G4160 poieo well.

evangelist
    A person who seeks to convert others to
    the Christian faith, especially by public
    preaching.
    "an American television evangelist"
    
    The writer of one of the four Gospels
    (Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John).
    "St John the Evangelist"

    https://youtu.be/x0rUaQneH9E?t=1057

    Philip's ministry is described in Acts 8.

    There's only one person in the New
    Testament who is callled an evangelist.

    Philip's ministry is the pattened
    mininstry of an evangelist.

    An evangelist's ministry is very simple:
    - Preach Christ Jesus
