https://www.pcmag.com/encyclopedia/term/permissionless

permissionless
permissionless blockchain
    Not requiring authorization.
    
    Permissionless often refers to public
    blockchains that allow anyone to
    participate in validating and mining
    transactions as well as using the system
    to buy, sell and trade assets.
    
    Contrast with permissioned blockchain.
    
    See blockchain, private blockchain and
    crypto glossary.

permissioned
permissioned blockchain
consortium blockchain
private blockchain
    A private blockchain that requires vetting
    to become a validator, miner or, in many
    cases, a user.
    
    Uses the blockchain architecture but is
    controlled by an organization.
    
    Contrast with permissionless.
    
    See blockchain, private blockchain and
    crypto glossary.

TDA
Token Distribution Auction
    During the TDA, the weights of both the
    assets in the Balancer LBP will be
    flexible and will change over time
    depending on the trades initiated.
    
    The moment the pool goes live on the 28th
    of December 2021, the weight will be set
    at 96:4 (ALI/USDC), and, over the time the
    pool runs, this weight will gradually
    decrease to the final weight of 50:50.

    https://medium.com/alethea-ai/alethea-ai-announces-token-distribution-auction-ec17600e6233

cryptonetworks
    Networks built on top of the internet that
    1) use consensus mechanisms such as
    blockchains to maintain and update state,
    2) use cryptocurrencies (coins/tokens) to
    incentivize consensus participants
    (miners/validators) and other network
    participants.
    
    Some cryptonetworks, such as Ethereum, are
    general programming platforms that can be
    used for almost any purpose.
    
    Other cryptonetworks are special purpose,
    for example Bitcoin is intended primarily
    for storing value, Golem for performing
    computations, and Filecoin for
    decentralized file storage.

Transaction malleability
    While transactions are signed, the
    signature does not currently cover all the
    data in a transaction that is hashed to
    create the transaction hash.
    
    Thus, while uncommon, it is possible for a
    node on the network to change a
    transaction you send in such a way that
    the hash is invalidated.
    
    Note that this just changes the hash; the
    output of the transaction remains the same
    and the bitcoins will go to their intended
    recipient.
    
    However this does mean that, for instance,
    it is not safe to accept a chain of
    unconfirmed transactions under any
    circumstance because the later
    transactions will depend on the hashes of
    the previous transactions, and those
    hashes can be changed until they are
    confirmed in a block (and potentially even
    after a confirmation if the block chain is
    reorganized).
    
    In addition, clients must always actively
    scan for transactions to them; assuming a
    txout exists because the client created it
    previously is unsafe.

Decentralized autonomous organization
DAO
decentralized autonomous corporation
    An organization represented by rules
    encoded as a computer program that is
    transparent, controlled by the
    organization members and not influenced by
    a central government.

    Can you imagine a way of organizing with
    other people around the world, without
    knowing each other and establishing your
    own rules, and making your own decisions
    autonomously all encoded on a Blockchain?
    Well, DAOs are making this real.

    A DAO’s financial transactions and rules
    are recorded on a blockchain.
    
    This eliminates the need to involve a
    third party in a financial transaction,
    simplifying those transactions through
    smart contracts.
    
    The firmness of a DAO is a smart contract.
    
    The smart contract represents the rules of
    the organization and holds the
    Organization’s storage.
    
    No one can edit the rules without people
    noticing, because DAOs are transparent and
    public.
    
    Up to today we are used to companies
    backed by legal status, a DAO may
    perfectly function without it as it can be
    structured as a general partnership.

    In comparison to traditional companies,
    DAOs have a democratized organization.
    
    All the members of a DAO need to vote for
    any changes to be implemented, instead of
    implemented changes by a sole party
    (depending on the company’s structure).
    
    The funding of DAOs is mainly based on
    crowdfunding that issues tokens.
    
    The governance of DAOs is based on
    community, while traditional companies’
    governance is mostly based on executives,
    Board of Directors, activist investors.
    etc.
    
    DAOs’ operations are fully transparent and
    global, meanwhile, traditional companies’
    operations are private, only the
    organization know what is happening, and
    they are not always global.

double-spending
    The risk that a digital currency can be
    spent twice.
    
    It is a potential problem unique to
    digital currencies because digital
    information can be reproduced relatively
    easily by savvy individuals who understand
    the blockchain network and the computing
    power necessary to manipulate it.

State channels
    Refer to the process in which users
    transact with one another directly outside
    of the blockchain, or 'off-chain,' and
    greatly minimize their use of 'on-chain'
    operations.

Layer 2
    A secondary framework or protocol that is
    built on top of an existing blockchain
    system.

    The main goal of these protocols is to
    solve the transaction speed and scaling
    difficulties that are being faced by the
    major cryptocurrency networks.
