hard problem of consciousness
    The mystery of how inanimate matter
    arranges itself into living beings with
    self-aware minds and a rich inner life —
    is what the philosopher David Chalmers
    called the “hard problem” of
    consciousness. But the way Seth sees it,
    Chalmers was overly pessimistic. Yes, it’s
    a challenge — but we’ve been chipping away
    at it steadily over the years.

    https://joe-antognini.github.io/ml/consciousness

    The hard problem of consciousness is the
    problem of explaining why and how we have
    qualia or phenomenal experiences.
    
    That is to say, it is the problem of why
    we have personal, first-person
    experiences, often described as
    experiences that feel "like something."
    
    In comparison, we assume there are no such
    experiences for inanimate things like, for
    instance, a thermostat, toaster, computer,
    or a sophisticated form of artificial
    intelligence.
    
    The philosopher David Chalmers, who
    introduced the term "hard problem of
    consciousness," contrasts this with the
    "easy problems" of explaining the physical
    systems that give us and other animals the
    ability to discriminate, integrate
    information, report mental states, focus
    attention, and so forth.
    
    Easy problems are (relatively) easy
    because all that is required for their
    solution is to specify a mechanism that
    can perform the function.
    
    That is, even though we have yet to solve
    most of the easy problems (our
    understanding of the brain is still
    preliminary), these questions can probably
    eventually be understood by relying
    entirely on standard scientific methods.
    
    Chalmers claims that even once we have
    solved such problems about the brain and
    experience, the hard problem will "persist
    even when the performance of all the
    relevant functions is explained".
    
    The existence of a "hard problem" is
    controversial.
    
    It has been accepted by philosophers of
    mind such as Joseph Levine, Colin McGinn,
    and Ned Block and cognitive
    neuroscientists such as Francisco Varela,
    Giulio Tononi, and Christof Koch.
    
    However, its existence is disputed by
    philosophers of mind such as Daniel
    Dennett, Massimo Pigliucci, Thomas
    Metzinger, Patricia Churchland, and Keith
    Frankish, and cognitive neuroscientists
    such as Stanislas Dehaene, Bernard Baars,
    Anil Seth and Antonio Damasio.

cognizance
    Knowledge or awareness.
    "the Renaissance cognizance of Greece was
    limited"

externalization
    An unconscious defense mechanism by which
    an individual "projects" their own
    internal characteristics onto the outside
    world, particularly onto other people.

associationism
    The idea that mental processes operate by
    the association of one mental state with
    its successor states. It holds that all
    mental processes are made up of discrete
    psychological elements and their
    combinations, which are believed to be
    made up of sensations or simple feelings.

general behaviourism
Behaviorism
behavioral psychology
    A theory of learning which states all
    behaviors are learned through interaction
    with the environment through a process
    called conditioning. Thus, behavior is
    simply a response to environmental
    stimuli.


mind-body problem
     A debate concerning the relationship
     between thought and consciousness in the
     human mind, and the brain as part of the
     physical body.
     
     It is distinct from the question of how
     mind and body function chemically and
     physiologically, as that question
     presupposes an interactionist account of
     mind–body relations.
     
     This question arises when mind and body
     are considered as distinct, based on the
     premise that the mind and the body are
     fundamentally different in nature.

Interactionist
interactionism
    [sociology]

    A theoretical perspective that derives
    social processes (such as conflict,
    cooperation, identity formation) from
    human interaction.
    
    It is the study of how individuals shape
    society and are shaped by society through
    meaning that arises in interactions.
    
    Interactionist theory has grown in the
    latter half of the twentieth century and
    has become one of the dominant
    sociological perspectives in the world
    today.

    George Herbert Mead, as an advocate of
    pragmatism and the subjectivity of social
    reality, is considered a leader in the
    development of interactionism.
    
    Herbert Blumer expanded on Mead's work and
    coined the term "symbolic interactionism".

universal mind
universal consciousness
    A metaphysical concept suggesting an
    underlying essence of all being and
    becoming in the universe.

qualia
    [#philosophy of mind]
    [#philosophy]
    [#psychology]

    Individual instances of subjective,
    conscious experience.

    https://youtu.be/evQsOFQju08?t=165

consciousness
    In order to understand the effects and
    benefits of uniting consciousness with the
    unconscious consciousness, which includes
    both our awareness and our egos, the
    definiteness and directedness of the
    conscious mind, which are extremely
    important acquisitions which humanity has
    bought at a very heavy sacrifice, and
    which in turn have rendered humanity the
    highest service.
    
    Without them, science, technology, and
    civilization would be impossible for they
    all presuppose the reliable continuity and
    directedness of the conscious process the
    advantage of consciousness is that it
    enables us to act purposefully since we
    can filter the contents of our minds and
    focus on what we consider to be important.
    
    This naturally implies that the scope of
    consciousness is narrow like a flashlight
    which can only illuminate one thing at a
    time.
    
    This narrow scope means that consciousness
    must exclude certain contents such as
    external events which aren't worth noting
    or contents of the mind which are
    deliberately repressed by the ego such as
    embarrassing memories.
    
    The ego in this sense acts like a filter
    and it is this property which allows it to
    concentrate on a limited number of things
    at any given time.
    
    Another characteristic of consciousness is
    that it is self-referential. By this I mean
    that the ego judges and discriminates
    based on what it already knows and what is
    familiar with and has a tendency to
    exclude things which are incompatible with
    its preconceptions.
    
    As Jung puts it, this judgment is partial
    and prejudiced since it chooses one
    particular possibility at the cost of all
    the others.