https://www.biblicalcyclopedia.com/

monachos
    From Ancient Greek μοναχός ("single,
    solitary"), from μόνος ("alone")

Philosophoumena
Elenchus
Refutation of All Heresies
    [work by Hippolytus]

    https://www.britannica.com/topic/Philosophoumena

    A compendious Christian polemical work of
    the early third century, whose attribution
    to Hippolytus of Rome or an unknown
    "Pseudo-Hippolytus" is disputed · .
    
    It catalogues both pagan beliefs and 33
    gnostic Christian systems deemed heretical
    by Hippolytus, making it a major source of
    information on contemporary opponents of
    Christian orthodoxy as understood today.
    
    The first book, a synopsis of Greek
    philosophy, circulated separately in
    several manuscripts and was known as the
    Philosophoumena (Greek: Φιλοσοφούμενα
    "philosophical teachings"), a title which
    some extend to the whole work.
    
    Books IV-X were recovered in 1842 in a
    manuscript at Mount Athos, while books II
    and III remain lost.
    
    The work was long attributed to the early
    Christian theologian Origen.

    He describes the Pope as a weak man
    “unskilled in the church’s rule” and
    dominated by Calixtus.

    Hippolytus considered both men culpable
    for being unwilling to enter the
    theological debate on the Trinity.

image of the androgyne
    https://mullikine.github.io/posts/dream-discernment-of-judgement/

teleioi
    (τέλειοι or τελειούμενοι, the perfect)

    A name of early Christians, which had
    relation to the sacred mysteries, and
    denoted such as had been initiated.
    
    Baptism was denominated τελετή); to join
    the Church was styled ἐλθεῖν ἐπὶ τὸ
    τέλειον, to attain to perfection; the
    participation of the eucharist, which
    followed immediately on baptism, was
    called τελετὴ τελετῶν, perfection of
    perfections; and the absolution granted in
    the eucharist was called τὸ τέλειον, the
    perfection of a Christian.
    
    The word is, however, used frequently in
    the New Test., not indeed in this sense,
    but in relation to Christian perfection.

    Full grown, adult, of full age, mature.

paston
bridal chamber
nuptial chamber
marital chamber
wedding chamber
wedded chamber
bridal chamber
mystery of the bridal chamber
    Now known from the Gospel of Philip and
    other Nag Hammadi texts:
    - becoming one with the Bridegroom

    Establishing the germ of light in the
    bridal chamber.

    Receiving grace and the Spirit.

    Because of this Christ came, in order that
    he might remove the separation which was
    from the beginning, and again unite the
    two; and that he might give life to those
    who died in the separation, and unite
    them.

nuptial
    Used to refer to things relating to a
    wedding or to marriage.

    "I went to the room which he had called
    the nuptial chamber."

sectarianism
    Excessive attachment to a particular sect
    or party, especially in religion.
    "religious sectarianism"

sacred vigil
    After dinner begins with men and women
    singing and dancing in separate choirs,
    until "having drunk as in the Bacchic
    rites of the strong wine of God's love
    they mix and both together become a single
    choir, a copy of the choir set up of old
    beside the Red Sea".

The Baptismal Reunification Formula
    I suggested at the outset that when Paul
    speaks of the reunification of pairs of
    opposites in Galatians 3:28 he is not
    engaging in ad hoc rhetoric but quoting a
    bit of the liturgy of baptism.
    
    It is time now to vindicate that assertion
    by formal analysis and to inquire about
    the symbolic and social context of the
    language.
    
    The reunification language is found three
    times in the Pauline corpus: in Galatians
    3:28, where the unified opposites are
    Jew/Greek, slave/free, male and female; in
    1 Corinthians 12:13, Jews/Greeks,
    slaves/free, and in Colossians 3:11, where
    the terms are expanded: Greek and Jew,
    circumcision and uncircumcision,
    barbarian, Scythian, slave, free.
    
    Perhaps there is an echo of the formula
    also in the "whether slave or free" in the
    Haustafel Ephesians 6:8, and in the
    "whether among the gentiles, in one body"
    of Ignatius, to the Smyrnaeans 1:2.
    
    The following observations bespeak a
    quoted formula: (1) A synopsis74 shows the
    consistency of the major motifs: baptism
    into Christ (or, "one body"), "putting on
    Christ" (or, "the new man"), simple
    listing of two or more pairs of opposites,
    and the statement that "all" are "one" or
    that Christ is all.75 The simplicity of
    the basic pattern, within which details of
    wording may vary widely, is characteristic
    of the liturgical and kerygmatic formulas
    which New Testament scholarship has
    isolated in recent years.
    
    (2) The declaration is associated in every
    instance with baptism, though it is not
    baptism as such which is under discussion
    in the letters.
    
    (3) The formula stands out from its
    context-most clearly in Galatians 3:28,
    least clearly in Colossians 3:11,
    precisely where the context is filled with
    other motifs which probably come from bap-
    tismal parenesis.76 The allusion to
    Genesis 1:27 in the third pair of
    Galatians 3:2877 has no connection with
    the immediate context nor with any of
    Paul's themes in Galatians.
    
    Only the first pair, Jew/Greek, is
    directly relevant to Paul's argument.
    
    The second pair, slave/free, may be
    connected with what follows, as Paul com-
    pares "adoption" or coming of age with
    release from slavery.
    
    If so, the connection is verbal, not
    material, for in the argument "slavery"
    and "freedom" are used metaphorically,
    while in verse 28 all the pairs refer
    quite concretely to social statuses.
    
    Hence it is more likely the occurrence of
    "slave or free" in the formula that
    suggested this turn in the argument rather
    than the reverse.
    
    There is a change of person from first
    plural in verse 25 to second plural in
    verse 29.78 We may therefore speak with
    some confidence of a "baptismal
    reunification formula" familiar in
    congregations asso- ciated with Paul and
    his school.
    
    Of course it is a moot question who first
    may have introduced such a statement into
    baptismal parenesis-it may perfectly well
    have been Paul himself.
    
    The point is, however, that it was not an
    idiosyncratic notion of his, but imbedded
    in the act of initiation into the
    Christian congregation.
    
    If the foregoing form-critical analysis is
    correct, then a resident of one of the
    cities of the province Asia who ventured
    to become a member of one of the tiny
    Christian cells in their early years would
    have heard the utopian declaration of
    mankind's reunifi- cation as a solemn
    ritual pronouncement.
    
    Reinforced by dramatic gestures
    (disrobing, immersion, robing), such a
    declaration would the community for which
    its language was meaning- carry-within
    ful-the power to assist in shaping the
    symbolic universe by which that group
    distinguished itself from the ordinary
    "world" of the larger society.
    
    A modern philosopher might call it a
    "performative utterance."79 So long as it
    is spoken validly, as perceived within the
    community's accepted norms of order, it
    does what it says.
    
    Thus, though we might suppose that the
    only possible realistic function of such
    language would be to inculcate an
    attitude, the form of the statement is not
    "you ought to think ... ," but "there A
    factual claim is being made, about an
    "objective" is...." change in reality that
    fundamentally modifies social roles.
    
    New attitudes and altered behavior would
    follow-but only if the group in clothing
    the novel declaration with "an aura of
    factuality."

eikon
    (ˈaɪkɒn ) noun. 1. Also: ikon. a
    representation of Christ, the Virgin Mary,
    or a saint, esp one painted in oil on a
    wooden panel, depicted in a traditional
    Byzantine style and venerated in the
    Eastern Church.