Magnum PI
    Thomas Sullivan Magnum IV is a private
    investigator played by Tom Selleck.
    
    He lives in the guest house of a 200-acre
    (81 ha) beachfront estate called Robin's
    Nest, in Hawaii, at the invitation of its
    owner, Robin Masters, an unseen character,
    the celebrated author of several dozen
    lurid novels.
    
    Ostensibly this is quid pro quo for
    Magnum's services based upon his expertise
    in security; the pilot and several early
    episodes suggest Magnum had done Masters a
    favor of some kind, possibly when Masters
    hired him for a case.
    
    The voice of Robin Masters, heard only in
    five episodes, was provided by Orson
    Welles (one last appearance was provided
    by a different actor, Red Crandell).
    
    Magnum lives a luxurious life on the
    estate and operates as a P.I. on cases
    that suit him.
    
    The only thorn in the side of his near-
    perfect lifestyle is Jonathan Quayle
    Higgins III, played by John Hillerman.
    
    An ex-British Army regimental sergeant
    major, he is on the surface a stern, by-
    the-book caretaker of Robin's Nest, whose
    strict ways often conflict with Magnum's
    more easy-going methods.
    
    He patrols Robin's Nest with his two
    highly-trained "lads", Dobermans named
    Zeus and Apollo.
    
    Magnum has free use of the guest house and
    the car, a Ferrari 308 GTS Quattrovalvole,
    but as a humorous aside in various
    episodes, often has to bargain with
    Higgins for use of estate amenities such
    as the tennis courts, wine cellar and
    expensive cameras.

Robin's Nest

Waimanalo Beach
    A census-designated place located in the
    City & County of Honolulu, in the District
    of Koʻolaupoko, on the island of Oʻahu in
    the U.S.  state of Hawaiʻi.
    
    This small windward community is located
    near the eastern end of the island, and
    the climate is dry.

    Known for being a good bodyboarding beach
    since the waves are not too high and break
    close to shore.
    
    Occasionally the shorebreak is very
    powerful here, so be cautious when
    entering the ocean and stick to the areas
    where the lifeguards are located.