Simulacra & Simulation
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bf9J35yzM3E&t=192s

    In postmodern society, each person becomes
    a pure screen (a terminal); A pure surface
    of absorbtion.
    
    Things are constantly projected onto us to
    the point where we become mere screens,
    who's sole purpose is to absorb.

3 Orders of Simulacra
    https://youtu.be/1Yxg2_6_YLs?t=895
    
    For Baudrillard there are three orders of
    simulacra.
    
    The first he writes our simulacra are
    natural (naturalist), founded on the image on
    imitation and counterfeit that are
    harmonious, optimistic and that aim for the
    restitution or the ideal institution of
    nature.
    
    The painter sitting painting a tree.
    
    The second our Simula crowd that are
    productive, productivist founded on
    energy, force its materialization by the
    Machine and its whole system of
    production; A Promethean aim of a
    continuous globalization and expansion of
    an indefinite liberation of energy.
    
    We might simply this to an architect
    looking at the tree and drawing a house to
    be built from it.
    
    The third a simulacra of simulation
    founded on information the model, the
    cybernetic game, total operationality,
    hyperreality, aim of total control. The
    global architecture corporation
    algorithmically processing timber
    locations, stock numbers, shipping details
    to work out the best utilization of the
    woods in the most efficient and profitable
    way.
    
    These are all different types of copies
    and in each order of simulacra we move
    steadily away from the real from the touch
    the smell the use value of that single
    tree in the woods.
    
    He writes the super ideology of the sign
    and the general operationalization of the
    signifier everywhere sanctioned today by
    the new master disciplines of linguistic
    semiology information theory and
    cybernetics has replaced good old
    political economy as the theoretical basis
    of the system.
    
    It's in this third order of simulation,
    the world is controlled by code that
    breaks away from meaning anything real.
    
    He argues that we now live in a world of
    simulation - we are already in the matrix.

Symbolic Exchange and Death

The Universal Equivalent
Money
    It can be used to compare the exchange
    value of completely different items.

Sign
    The universal equivalent of code.

    No matter what the sign represents, it can
    be compared and exchanged with other
    signs.
