materialism
    The view that the mind can be fully
    accounted for in terms of purely physical
    processes of the sort studied by the
    natural sciences - is today the dominant
    tendency in the field.

mind-body problem
    The problem of accounting for and
    describing the relationship between mental
    and physical processes (psyche and soma).

    Solutions to this problem fall into six
    broad categories: (a) interactionism, in
    which mind and body are separate processes
    that nevertheless exert mutual influence
    (see Cartesian dualism); (b) parallelism,
    in which mind and body are separate
    processes with a point-to-point
    correspondence but no causal connection
    (see occasionalism; preestablished
    harmony); (c) idealism, in which only mind
    exists and the soma is a function of the
    psyche; (d) double-aspect theory, in which
    body and mind are both functions of a
    common entity (see neutral monism); (e)
    epiphenomenalism, in which mind is a by-
    product of bodily processes; and (f)
    materialism, in which body is the only
    reality and the psyche is nonexistent.

    Categories (a) and (b) are varieties of
    dualism; the remainder are varieties of
    monism.

    In the context of psychopathology, two
    central questions arising from the
    mind-body problem are which sphere takes
    precedence in the genesis and development
    of illness and how does each sphere affect
    the other.

    Also called body-mind problem.

Cartesian dualism
    A theory or system of thought that regards
    a domain of reality in terms of two
    independent principles, especially mind
    and matter ( Cartesian dualism ).

    The position taken by René Descartes that
    the world comprises two distinct and
    incompatible classes of substance: res
    extensa, or extended substance, which
    extends through space; and res cogitans,
    or thinking substance, which has no
    extension in space.

    The body (including the brain) is composed
    of extended and divisible substance,
    whereas the mind is not.

    For Descartes, this means that the mind
    would continue to exist even if the
    material body did not.

    He accepted that there is interaction
    between mind and body, holding that in
    some activities the mind operates
    independently of bodily influences,
    whereas in others the body exerts an
    influence.

    Similarly, in some bodily activities there
    is influence from the mind, whereas in
    others there is not.

    Descartes proposed that the locus for the
    interaction of the mind and body is the
    point in the pineal gland in the brain
    termed the conarium.

    However, to the question of how such
    incompatible substances can interact at
    all, Descartes had no answer.

    See dualism; ghost in the machine;
    mind-body problem.