Immanuel Kant
    [Philosopher]

    A German philosopher and one of the
    central Enlightenment thinkers.

    Born in Königsberg, Kant's comprehensive
    and systematic works in epistemology,
    metaphysics, ethics, and aesthetics have
    made him one of the most influential
    figures in modern Western philosophy.

Socrates
    Socrates (c. 470-399 BCE) is a founding
    figure in the history of Western
    philosophy, revered for his single-minded
    dedication to truth and virtue, for his
    great argumentative skill, and for his
    death, which came to be viewed as a
    martyrdom.

    As a result of his public philosophizing
    in Athens, he was sentenced to death by
    the city's democratic government for
    "impiety" and "corrupting the youth." He
    could have saved himself by promising to
    cease philosophizing or by escaping into
    exile, but he refused, preferring to drink
    the deadly hemlock out of respect for the
    law.

    Beyond his reputation as a philosophical
    hero, Socrates is important for
    reorienting Greek philosophy toward
    ethical concerns and indeed for insisting
    that the cultivation of virtue, the "care
    of the soul," is overwhelmingly the most
    important obligation of every human being.

    He famously asserted at his trial, in
    defiance of his accusers, that the
    unexamined life is not worth living.

    His penetrating style of exploring
    philosophical questions in conversation,
    typically exposing contradictions in the
    positions of his interlocutors, is called
    the Socratic method.

    *Socrates wrote nothing.

    *What is known of his views is inferred
    from, among other sources, the early
    dialogues of Plato, in which "Socrates" is
    the main character.

    *Socrates held that virtue is a kind of
    knowledge and that anyone who knows what
    virtue is cannot help but act virtuously.

Plato
    Plato (c. 428-c. 348 BCE) was by far the
    most gifted and accomplished of Socrates'
    students.

    His thought was systematic, wide-ranging,
    profound, and extraordinarily influential,
    providing the foundation of ancient
    Neoplatonism and, through that school,
    guiding the development of early medieval
    philosophy and Christian theology.

    In later ages Platonic ideas influenced
    the development of 19th-century German
    idealism and 20th-century process
    philosophy.

    Since the late 19th century, Plato's
    influence has been most pronounced in the
    philosophy of mathematics, where
    mathematical Platonism is a well-
    established tradition with many
    contemporary adherents.

    Plato's foremost contribution to
    philosophy was his theory of Forms, which
    posited a realm of ideal, perfect, and
    changeless entities standing behind the
    world of ordinary experience.

    In addition to being a great philosopher,
    Plato was also a literary artist of the
    highest rank: he is a major figure in the
    history of Western literature.

    *Plato's philosophical works were written
    as dialogues, in most of which the
    principal character and main speaker is
    "Socrates." *Plato himself never appears
    as a character in any of the dialogues.

    *Plato's philosophy is the source of many
    famous literary tropes and myths,
    including the notion of Platonic love, the
    philosopher-king, and the metaphor of the
    Cave (the world of experience is like a
    shadow cast on a cave wall by real but
    unseen objects).

Aristotle
    Aristotle (384-322 BCE), who follows
    Socrates and Plato as the third member of
    the great triumvirate of ancient Greek
    philosophers, is arguably the most
    important thinker who ever lived.

    He made fundamental and pioneering
    contributions to every major field of
    philosophy, especially metaphysics,
    ethics, logic, the philosophy of mind, the
    philosophy of science, moral psychology,
    political philosophy, and aesthetics.

    He created the field of formal logic,
    devising a system of reasoning known as
    syllogistic that was not superseded until
    the mid-19th century.

    He was in addition the first genuine
    empirical scientist in history, being the
    first person to distinguish the major
    scientific fields (including biology,
    botany, chemistry, embryology, physics,
    and zoology) and performing in all of them
    theoretical and observational work of
    lasting importance.

    Following the translation into Latin of
    his major works beginning about the 12th
    century, Aristotle's philosophy eventually
    became the intellectual framework of later
    Western Scholasticism, eclipsing (though
    not eliminating) the influence of
    Neoplatonism as passed through St.

    Augustine and the Church Fathers.

    Following the Scientific Revolution,
    interest in the scientific aspects of
    Aristotle's philosophy declined, and other
    aspects of his philosophy were only
    intermittently influential.

    Beginning in the second half of the 20th
    century, the field of virtue ethics, a
    self-conscious revival of Aristotelian
    eudaimonism (the theory of well-being),
    promised an approach to ethics grounded in
    human nature and free of the
    counterintuitive consequences of action-
    based ethical theories.

    Studies of Aristotle's writings in ethics,
    metaphysics, and other fields continue to
    yield new insights into his thought.

    *Aristotle briefly served as tutor to the
    13-year-old Macedonian Alexander the
    Great, the future ruler of the entire
    Greek world as well as North Africa and
    the Middle East.

    *Upon Alexander's death in 323, Aristotle,
    because of his Macedonian birth and
    connections, fled Athens, saying that he
    did not wish the city that had killed
    Socrates "to sin twice against
    philosophy." *All of Aristotle's finished
    philosophical treatises are lost.

    The surviving works attributed to him
    consist of lecture notes and draft
    manuscripts.

    Their compact and abbreviated style
    contributes to the difficulty of his
    philosophy.

St. Augustine of Hippo
    St. Augustine of Hippo (354-430) was the
    preeminent Christian philosopher and
    theologian of late antiquity.

    His writings adapted aspects of
    Neoplatonic philosophy to the exposition
    and defense of Christian orthodoxy,
    imbuing those religious doctrines with
    philosophical sophistication and
    influencing the character of Western
    philosophy and theology for more than
    1,000 years.

    Among Augustine's most original and
    influential contributions to philosophy
    was his egocentric, or first-person,
    approach to philosophical questions,
    reflected in his response to skepticism
    ("If I am mistaken, I am"), which
    anticipated the famous cogito ("I think,
    therefore I am") of René Descartes.

    Augustine was also the first philosopher
    to clearly identify will as a distinct
    faculty of mind.

    He maintained that the human will is free,
    and therefore that humans are morally
    responsible for their choices, but he also
    held that God has foreknowledge of the
    choices that humans freely make.

    In the philosophy of religion, he
    developed an argument for the existence of
    God that is strikingly similar to the
    ontological argument formulated by St.

    Anselm of Canterbury more than 600 years
    later.

    A bishop of the Christian church in Roman
    North Africa, where he was born and spent
    almost all of his life, St.

    Augustine is recognized as philosophically
    the most important of the Church Fathers
    (the bishops and other teachers who
    influenced the development of Christian
    doctrine during the church's early
    centuries).

    *For 13 years Augustine maintained a
    monogamous relationship with a woman he
    did not marry; their son was born when
    Augustine was about 18 years old.

    *Augustine's life coincided with the last
    century of the Western Roman Empire.

    He died during a siege of Hippo by
    invading Vandals.

    *One of the most prolific authors in the
    history of philosophy, Augustine wrote
    more than 100 books and some 500 sermons,
    the vast majority of which have survived.

St. Thomas Aquinas
    St. Thomas Aquinas (c. 1224-74) was the
    greatest of the medieval Scholastic
    philosophers.

    Responding, as did others of his era, to
    the rediscovery of Aristotle's philosophy
    in the West through Latin translations of
    Aristotle's Greek texts, Aquinas produced
    a comprehensive system of Christianized
    Aristotelianism that encompassed
    metaphysics, logic, cosmology, philosophy
    of mind, philosophy of religion,
    philosophy of nature, political
    philosophy, and ethics.

    While insisting upon, and indeed
    demonstrating, the compatibility of the
    "new philosophy" with Christian doctrine,
    Aquinas also famously distinguished
    philosophy and theology by their different
    starting points.

    Although both are rational enterprises,
    involving a search for truth guided by
    reason, philosophy begins from general
    first principles about the world that any
    reflective person would accept, whereas
    theology starts with truths about God or
    the divine as revealed in Scripture, which
    can be accepted only on the basis of
    religious faith.

    During Aquinas's lifetime, aspects of his
    philosophy were resisted by more
    traditional theologians and formally
    rejected by the church.

    Some 50 years later, however, he was
    canonized a saint, and during the
    Renaissance he was pronounced a doctor of
    the church.

    In the late 19th century Pope Leo XIII
    called for a return to Aquinas in the face
    of modernizing trends in both philosophy
    and science.

    Thomism (the philosophy of Aquinas and his
    later interpreters) became the official
    philosophy of Roman Catholicism in 1917,
    following a revision of the Code of Canon
    Law that required Catholic teachers of
    philosophy and religion to adopt Aquinas's
    methods and principles.

    Later in the 20th century Thomism
    represented an important school of thought
    even outside Catholic philosophy,
    especially in ethics, the philosophy of
    law, and political philosophy.

    *Aquinas joined the recently founded
    mendicant order of St.

    Dominic in 1244, when he was about 20
    years old.

    *While journeying to Paris to study, he
    was kidnapped by his family, who
    disapproved of his decision to join the
    Dominicans, and was then held at home
    against his will for about two years.

    During his detention his brothers engaged
    a prostitute to seduce him, an effort that
    was unsuccessful.

    *Aquinas abruptly abandoned writing in
    1273 after undergoing an experience during
    mass that led him to regard all of his
    written work as "like straw." He died
    three months later.