https://www.poetryfoundation.org/learn/glossary-terms
https://examples.yourdictionary.com/examples-of-iambic.html
https://www.poetryfoundation.org/learn/glossary-terms?letter=A
https://www.poetryfoundation.org/learn/glossary-terms?letter=A&page=2
https://www.poetryfoundation.org/learn/glossary-terms?letter=B

chainpoems
    Became the principal method of authorial
    evasion.
    
    Here, different lines were written by
    different writers, often without sight of
    the previous contributions.
    
    Alternatively, lines were written
    separately and then randomly assembled and
    published.
    
    Or a line was written a word at a time,
    with the syntactic category (article,
    adjective, noun, verb, article, adjective,
    noun) specified, such as:
    - 'The winged vapour seduces the locked
      bird',
    - 'A corset in July is worth a horde of
      rats',
    - 'Faithful as a boneless cat'.
    - 'Le cadavre exquis boira le vin nouveau'
      - 'The exquisite corpse will drink the
        new wine'
    
    Issues 9 and 10 of La Révolution
    Surréaliste in October 1927 introduced
    these techniques with many examples of its
    product.

chain verse
    Two known forms:
    - one repeats the last work or syllable of
      a line with the first word or syllable
      of the next line, while
    - the other repeats the last line of each
      stanza with the first line of the
      following stanza.

iambic dimeter
    A line of poetry with two iambs.

iambic trimeter
    A line of poetry with three iambs.

iambic tetrameter
    A line of poetry with four iambs.

    - William Wordsworth, "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud"
        I wandered, lonely as a cloud
        That floats on high o’er dales and hills
        When, all at once, I saw a crowd
        A host of golden daffodils.

iambic pentameter
    A line of poetry with five iambs.

iambic hexameter
    A line of poetry with six iambs.

iambic heptameter
    A line of poetry with seven iambs.

iambic meter
    The pattern of a poetic line made up of
    iambs.

    Poetic verse that is made up of iambs,
    which are metrical "feet" with two
    syllables.
    
    In iambic verse, each line consists of one
    or more iambs.
    
    Iambic pentameter is the most common type
    of iambic meter but there are several
    others, as you'll see in the examples
    below.

    https://examples.yourdictionary.com/examples-of-iambic.html
    
iamb
iambic
    A metrical foot of poetry consisting of
    two syllables—an unstressed syllable
    followed by a stressed syllable,
    pronounced duh-DUH.
    
    An iamb can be made up of one word with
    two syllables or two different words.

    The words “unite” and “provide” are both
    iambic.
    
    It is the most common meter of poetry in
    English (including all the plays and poems
    of William Shakespeare), as it is closest
    to the rhythms of English speech.

    Examples:
    - exist
    - belong
    - predict
    - away
    - the one
    - we played
    - you know
    - I can’t

trochee
    Pronounced DUH-duh, as in “ladder.”

    A line of verse with one or more trochees
    is said to have a trochaic meter. This
    stress pattern is the opposite of iambic
    meter.

spondee
    Spondees have two stressed syllables,
    pronounced DUH-DUH, as in “TV.” Learn more
    about spondee in our guide here.

dactyl
    Dactyls are pronounced DUH-duh-duh, as in
    “certainly.” This foot has a stressed
    syllable followed by two unstressed
    syllables.

anapest
    Pronounced duh-duh-DUH, as in “what the
    heck!” Anapestic meter typically divides
    its syllables across multiple words.

allegory
    A story, poem, or picture that can be
    interpreted to reveal a hidden meaning,
    typically a moral or political one.

quatrain
    [stanza]

    A quatrain is a type of stanza, or a
    complete poem, consisting of four lines.
    
    Existing in a variety of forms, the
    quatrain appears in poems from the poetic
    traditions of various ancient
    civilizations including Persia, Ancient
    India, Ancient Greece, Ancient Rome, and
    China, and continues into the 21st
    century, where it is seen in works
    published in many languages.
    
    This form of poetry has been continually
    popular in Iran since the medieval period,
    as Ruba'is form an important faction of
    the vast repertoire of Persian poetry,
    with famous poets such as Omar Khayyam and
    Mahsati Ganjavi of Seljuk Persia only
    writing poetry in this format.
    
    Michel de Nostredame (Nostradamus) used
    the quatrain form to deliver his famous
    prophecies in the 16th century.
    
    There are fifteen possible rhyme schemes,
    but the most traditional and common are:
    ABAA, AAAA, ABAB, and ABBA.

abecedarian 
    Related to acrostic, a poem in which the
    first letter of each line or stanza
    follows sequentially through the alphabet.
    
    See Jessica Greenbaum, “A Poem for S.” Tom
    Disch’s “Abecedary” adapts the principles
    of an abecedarian poem, while Matthea
    Harvey’s “The Future of Terror/The Terror
    of Future” sequence also uses the alphabet
    as an organizing principle.
    
    Poets who have used the abecedarian across
    whole collections include Mary Jo Bang, in
    The Bride of E, and Harryette Mullen, in
    Sleeping with the Dictionary.

accentual verse 
    Verse whose meter is determined by the
    number of stressed (accented)
    syllables—regardless of the total number
    of syllables—in each line.
    
    Many Old English poems, including Beowulf,
    are accentual; see Ezra Pound’s modern
    translation of “The Seafarer.” More
    recently, Richard Wilbur employed this
    same Anglo-Saxon meter in his poem “Junk.”
    Traditional nursery rhymes, such as “Pat-
    a-cake, pat-a-cake,” are often accentual.

accentual-syllabic verse 
    Verse whose meter is determined by the
    number and alternation of its stressed and
    unstressed syllables, organized into feet.
    
    From line to line, the number of stresses
    (accents) may vary, but the total number
    of syllables within each line is fixed.
    
    The majority of English poems from the
    Renaissance to the 19th century are
    written according to this metrical system.

acmeism 
    An early 20th-century Russian school of
    poetry that rejected the vagueness and
    emotionality of Symbolism in favor of
    Imagist clarity and texture.
    
    Its proponents included Osip Mandelstam
    and Anna Akhmatova.

acrostic 
    A poem in which the first letter of each
    line spells out a word, name, or phrase
    when read vertically.
    
    See Lewis Carroll’s “A Boat beneath a
    Sunny Sky.”

alcaic 
    A four-line stanza invented by the
    Classical Greek poet Alcaeus that employs
    a specific syllabic count per line and a
    predominantly dactylic meter.
    
    Alfred, Lord Tennyson imitated its form in
    his poem “Milton.”

alexandrine 
    In English, a 12-syllable iambic line
    adapted from French heroic verse.
    
    The last line of each stanza in Thomas
    Hardy’s “The Convergence of the Twain” and
    Percy Bysshe Shelley’s “To a Skylark” is
    an alexandrine.

allegory 
    An extended metaphor in which the
    characters, places, and objects in a
    narrative carry figurative meaning.
    
    Often an allegory’s meaning is religious,
    moral, or historical in nature.
    
    John Bunyan’s The Pilgrim’s Progress and
    Edmund Spenser’s The Faerie Queene are two
    major allegorical works in English.

alliteration 
    The repetition of initial stressed,
    consonant sounds in a series of words
    within a phrase or verse line.
    
    Alliteration need not reuse all initial
    consonants; “pizza” and “place”
    alliterate.
    
    Example: “With swift, slow; sweet, sour;
    adazzle, dim” from Gerard Manley Hopkins’s
    “Pied Beauty.” Browse poems with
    alliteration.

allusion 
    A brief, intentional reference to a
    historical, mythic, or literary person,
    place, event, or movement.
    
    “The Waste Land,” T.  S.  Eliot’s
    influential long poem is dense with
    allusions.
    
    The title of Seamus Heaney’s
    autobiographical poem “Singing School”
    alludes to a line from W.B.
    
    Yeats’s “Sailing to Byzantium” (“Nor is
    there singing school but studying
    /Monuments of its own magnificence”).
    
    Browse poems with allusions.

ambiguity 
    A word, statement, or situation with two
    or more possible meanings is said to be
    ambiguous.
    
    As poet and critic William Empson wrote in
    his influential book Seven Types of
    Ambiguity (1930), “The machinations of
    ambiguity are among the very roots of
    poetry.” A poet may consciously join
    together incompatible words to disrupt the
    reader’s expectation of meaning, as e.e.
    cummings does in [anyone lived in a pretty
    how town].
    
    The ambiguity may be less deliberate,
    steered more by the poet’s attempts to
    express something ineffable, as in Gerard
    Manley Hopkins’s “The Windhover.” At the
    sight of a bird diving through the air,
    the speaker marvels, “Brute beauty and
    valor and act, oh, air, pride, plume here
    / Buckle!” The ambiguity of this phrase
    lies in the exclamation of “buckle”: The
    verb could be descriptive of the action,
    or it could be the speaker’s imperative.
    
    In both cases, the meaning of the word is
    not obvious from its context.
    
    “Buckle” could mean “fall” or “crumple,”
    or it could describe the act of clasping
    armor and bracing for battle.

anachronism 
    Someone or something placed in an
    inappropriate period of time.
    
    Shakespeare’s placing of a clock in Julius
    Caesar is an anachronism, because clocks
    had not yet been invented in the period
    when the play is set.
    
    In Charles Olson’s epic The Maximus Poems,
    the central figure encompasses the poet’s
    alter ego, the second-century Greek
    philosopher Maximus of Tyre, and the
    fourth-century Phoenician mystic Maximus.
    
    This persona arises from outside of time
    to reflect on the state of American
    culture by recounting the history of
    Gloucester, Massachusetts.

anagram 
    A word spelled out by rearranging the
    letters of another word; for example, “The
    teacher gapes at the mounds of exam pages
    lying before her.” 

anapest 
    A metrical foot consisting of two
    unaccented syllables followed by an
    accented syllable.
    
    The words “underfoot” and “overcome” are
    anapestic.
    
    Lord Byron’s “The Destruction of
    Sennacherib” is written in anapestic
    meter.

anaphora 
    Often used in political speeches and
    occasionally in prose and poetry, anaphora
    is the repetition of a word or words at
    the beginning of successive phrases,
    clauses, or lines to create a sonic
    effect.

    Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s famous “I
    Have a Dream” speech, which uses anaphora
    not only in its oft-quoted “I have a
    dream” refrain but throughout, as in this
    passage when he repeats the phrase “go
    back to”:

        Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, 
        go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and
        ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can
        and will be changed.

    In Joanna Klink's poem “Some Feel Rain,”
    the phrase "some feel" is repeated, which
    creates a rhythm and a sense of an
    accumulating emotions and meanings:

        Some feel rain. Some feel the beetle startle
        in its ghost-part when the bark
        slips. Some feel musk. Asleep against
        each other in the whiskey dark, scarcely there.

    See Paul Muldoon’s “As,” William Blake’s
    “The Tyger,” or much of Walt Whitman’s
    poetry, including “I Sing the Body
    Electric.” See also Rebecca Hazelton's
    explanatory essay, “Adventures in
    Anaphora.”

anthropomorphism 
    A form of personification in which human
    qualities are attributed to anything
    inhuman, usually a god, animal, object, or
    concept.
    
    In Vachel Lindsay’s “What the Rattlesnake
    Said,” for example, a snake describes the
    fears of his imagined prey.
    
    John Keats admires a star’s loving
    watchfulness (“with eternal lids apart”)
    in his sonnet “Bright Star, Would I Were
    as Steadfast as Thou Art.”

antithesis 
    Contrasting or combining two terms,
    phrases, or clauses with opposite
    meanings.
    
    William Blake pits love’s competing
    impulses—selflessness and self-
    interest—against each other in his poem
    “The Clod and the Pebble.” Love “builds a
    Heaven in Hell’s despair,” or,
    antithetically, it “builds a Hell in
    Heaven’s despite.”

aphorism 
    A pithy, instructive statement or truism,
    like a maxim or adage.

    See Benjamin Franklin’s “How to get
    RICHES.”

apostrophe 
    An address to a dead or absent person, or
    personification as if he or she were
    present. In his Holy Sonnet “Death, be not
    proud,” John Donne denies death’s power by
    directly admonishing it. Emily Dickinson
    addresses her absent object of passion in
    “Wild nights!—Wild nights!” 

archetype 
    A basic model from which copies are made;
    a prototype.
    
    According to psychologist Carl Jung,
    archetypes emerge in literature from the
    “collective unconscious” of the human
    race.
    
    Northrop Frye, in his Anatomy of
    Criticism, explores archetypes as the
    symbolic patterns that recur within the
    world of literature itself.
    
    In both approaches, archetypical themes
    include birth, death, sibling rivalry, and
    the individual versus society.
    
    Archetypes may also be images or
    characters, such as the hero, the lover,
    the wanderer, or the matriarch.

Ars Poetica
    A poem that explains the “art of poetry,”
    or a meditation on poetry using the form
    and techniques of a poem.
    
    Horace’s Ars Poetica is an early example,
    and the foundation for the tradition.
    
    While Horace writes of the importance of
    delighting and instructing audiences,
    modernist ars poetica poets argue that
    poems should be written for their own
    sake, as art for the sake of art.
    
    Archibald MacLeish’s famous “Ars Poetica”
    sums up the argument: “A poem should not
    mean / But be.” See also Alexander Pope’s
    “An Essay on Criticism,” William
    Wordsworth’s Prelude, and Wallace
    Stevens’s “Of Modern Poetry.”

assonance
    The repetition of vowel sounds without
    repeating consonants; sometimes called
    vowel rhyme.
    
    See Amy Lowell’s “In a Garden” (“With its
    leaping, and deep, cool murmur”) or “The
    Taxi” (“And shout into the ridges of the
    wind”).

aubade
    A love poem or song welcoming or lamenting
    the arrival of the dawn.
    
    The form originated in medieval France.
    
    See John Donne’s “The Sun Rising” and
    Louise Bogan’s “Leave-Taking.” Browse more
    aubade poems.

augustan Age
    The first half of the 18th century, during
    which English poets such as Alexander Pope
    and Jonathan Swift emulated Virgil, Ovid,
    and Horace—the great Latin poets of the
    reign of the Emperor Augustus (27 BCE to
    14 CE).
    
    Like the classical poets who inspired
    them, the English Augustan writers engaged
    the political and philosophical ideas of
    their day through urbane, often satirical
    verse.

Ballad
    A popular narrative song passed down
    orally.
    
    In the English tradition, it usually
    follows a form of rhymed (abcb) quatrains
    alternating four-stress and three-stress
    lines.
    
    Folk (or traditional) ballads are
    anonymous and recount tragic, comic, or
    heroic stories with emphasis on a central
    dramatic event; examples include “Barbara
    Allen” and “John Henry.” Beginning in the
    Renaissance, poets have adapted the
    conventions of the folk ballad for their
    own original compositions.
    
    Examples of this “literary” ballad form
    include John Keats’s “La Belle Dame sans
    Merci,” Thomas Hardy’s “During Wind and
    Rain,” and Edgar Allan Poe’s “Annabel
    Lee.” Browse more ballads.

Ballade
    An Old French verse form that usually
    consists of three eight-line stanzas and a
    four-line envoy, with a rhyme scheme of
    ababbcbc bcbc.
    
    The last line of the first stanza is
    repeated at the end of subsequent stanzas
    and the envoy.
    
    See Hilaire Belloc’s “Ballade of Modest
    Confession” and Algernon Charles
    Swinburne’s translation of François
    Villon’s “Ballade des Pendus” (Ballade of
    the Hanged).

Beat poets
A national group of poets who emerged from San Francisco’s literary counterculture in the 1950s. Its ranks included Allen Ginsberg, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Gregory Corso, and Gary Snyder. Poet and essayist Kenneth Rexroth influenced the development of the “Beat” aesthetic, which rejected academic formalism and the materialism and conformity of the American middle class. Beat poetry is largely free verse, often surrealistic, and influenced by the cadences of jazz, as well by Zen and Native American spirituality. Browse more Beat poets.

Black Arts Movement
A cultural movement conceived of and promoted by Amiri Baraka in the mid-1960s. Its constellation of writers, performers, and artists included Nikki Giovanni, Gwendolyn Brooks, Haki Madhubuti, Etheridge Knight, and Sonia Sanchez. “We want a black poem. And / a Black World. / Let the world be a Black Poem,” writes Baraka (then LeRoi Jones) in his poem “Black Art,” which served as a de facto manifesto for the movement. Its practitioners were energized by a desire to confront white power structures and assert an African American cultural identity. Its aims were community-minded as well as artistic; during its heyday, hundreds of Afrocentric repertory theater companies, public art projects, and publishing ventures were organized throughout the United States.

Black Mountain poets
A group of progressive poets who, in the 1940s and 1950s, were associated with the experimental Black Mountain College in North Carolina. These poets, including Charles Olson and Robert Creeley, promoted a nontraditional poetics described by Olson in 1950 as “projective verse," resulting in the additional designation "Projectivists" for this group of writers. Charles Olson advocated an improvisational, open-form approach to poetic composition driven by the natural patterns of breath and utterance. The Black Mountain School of poetry is often associated with the Beat poets and the San Francisco Renaissance poets including Robert Duncan, as many of these writers were associates. Browse more Black Mountain poets or read from our Black Mountain Poets collection.

Blank verse
Unrhyming iambic pentameter, also called heroic verse. This 10-syllable line is the predominant rhythm of traditional English dramatic and epic poetry, as it is considered the closest to English speech patterns. Poems such as John Milton’s Paradise Lost, Robert Browning’s dramatic monologues, and Wallace Stevens’s “Sunday Morning,” are written predominantly in blank verse. Browse more blank verse poems.

Blazon
Blazon: French for “coat-of-arms” or “shield.” A literary blazon (or blason) catalogues the physical attributes of a subject, usually female. The device was made popular by Petrarch and used extensively by Elizabethan poets. Spenser’s “Epithalamion” includes examples of blazon: “Her goodly eyes like sapphires shining bright, / Her forehead ivory white …” Blazon compares parts of the female body to jewels, celestial bodies, natural phenomenon, and other beautiful or rare objects. See for example Thomas Campion’s “There Is a Garden in Her Face.” Contreblazon inverts the convention, describing “wrong” parts of the female body or negating them completely as in Shakespeare’s famous sonnet “My mistress’s eyes are nothing like the sun.” For a contemporary example, see “My Boyfriend” by Camille Guthrie. 

Bucolic
See pastoral poetry.

Cacophony
Harsh or discordant sounds, often the result of repetition and combination of consonants within a group of words. The opposite of euphony. Writers frequently use cacophony to express energy or mimic mood. See also dissonance.

Cadence
The patterning of rhythm in natural speech, or in poetry without a distinct meter (i.e., free verse).

Caesura
    A stop or pause in a metrical line, often
    marked by punctuation or by a grammatical
    boundary, such as a phrase or clause.
    
    A medial caesura splits the line in equal
    parts, as is common in Old English poetry
    (see Beowulf).
    
    Medial caesurae (plural of caesura) can be
    found throughout contemporary poet Derek
    Walcott’s “The Bounty.” When the pause
    occurs toward the beginning or end of the
    line, it is termed, respectively, initial
    or terminal.
    
    Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s “Mother and
    Poet” contains both initial (“Dead! One of
    them shot by sea in the east”) and
    terminal caesurae (“No voice says ‘My
    mother’ again to me. What?”)
Canon
    A list of authors or works considered to
    be central to the identity of a given
    literary tradition or culture.
    
    This secular use of the word is derived
    from its original meaning as a listing of
    all authorized books in the Bible.
    
    William Shakespeare, John Milton, and
    William Blake are frequently found on
    lists of canonical literature in English.

Canto
    A long subsection of an epic or long
    narrative poem, such as Dante Alighieri’s
    Commedia (The Divine Comedy), first
    employed in English by Edmund Spenser in
    The Faerie Queene.
    
    Other examples include Lord Byron’s Don
    Juan and Ezra Pound’s Cantos.

Canzone
    Literally “song” in Italian, the canzone
    is a lyric poem originating in medieval
    Italy and France and usually consisting of
    hendecasyllabic lines with end-rhyme.
    
    Early versions include Petrarch’s five to
    six-line stanzas plus an envoi, as well as
    Dante’s modification: five twelve-line
    stanzas with repeated end words, finished
    by a five-line envoi.
    
    The canzone influenced the development of
    the sonnet and later writers such as James
    Merrill, W.H.  Auden, and Ezra Pound took
    up the form.
    
    See Daryl Hine’s “Canzone” and “About the
    Canzone,” by John Hollander.

Carol
    A hymn or poem often sung by a group, with
    an individual taking the changing stanzas
    and the group taking the burden or
    refrain.
    
    See Robert Southwell’s “The Burning Babe”.
    
    Many traditional Christmas songs are
    carols, such as “I Saw Three Ships” and
    “The Twelve Days of Christmas.”

Carpe diem
    In Latin, “Seize the day.” The fleeting
    nature of life and the need to embrace its
    pleasures constitute a frequent theme of
    love poems; examples include Andrew
    Marvell’s “To His Coy Mistress” and Robert
    Herrick’s “To the Virgins, to Make Much of
    Time.”

Chiasmus
    Repetition of any group of verse elements
    (including rhyme and grammatical
    structure) in reverse order, such as the
    rhyme scheme ABBA.
    
    Examples can be found in Biblical
    scripture (“But many that are first /
    Shall be last, / And many that are last /
    Shall be first”; Matthew 19:30).
    
    See also John Keats’s “Ode on a Grecian
    Urn” (“Beauty is truth, truth beauty”).

Choriamb
    Greek and Latin metrical foot consisting
    of two stressed syllables enclosing two
    unstressed; a trochee followed by an iamb.
    
    It is rarely used as a metrical scheme in
    English poetry, though Algernon Charles
    Swinburne imitated this classical meter in
    “Choriambics.”

Circumlocution
    A roundabout wording, such as Samuel
    Taylor Coleridge’s “twice five miles of
    fertile ground” (i.e., 10 miles) in “Kubla
    Khan.” Like periphrasis, which also
    involves the use of more words to convey
    what could be said in fewer,
    circumlocution is a way of saying
    something in a less direct manner.

Cockney School of poets
    A dismissive name for London-based
    Romantic poets such as John Keats, Leigh
    Hunt, and Percy Bysshe Shelley.
    
    The term was first used in a scathing
    review in Blackwood’s Magazine in October
    1817, in which the anonymous reviewer
    mocked the poets’ lack of pedigree and
    sophistication.

Collage
    From the French coller, meaning to paste
    or glue.
    
    In visual arts, a technique that involves
    juxtaposing photographs, cuttings,
    newspapers, or other media on a surface.
    
    Widely seen as a hallmark of Modernist
    art, collage was first developed in the
    early 20th century by Pablo Picasso and
    other Cubists.
    
    Avant-garde groups such as the Dadaists
    and Surrealists also used the form to
    create new visual and language-based work.
    
    Tristan Tzara famously advocated a “cut-
    up” method of composition, involving
    cutting out words from a newspaper and
    drawing them randomly from a hat to create
    a poem.
    
    Collage in language-based work can now
    mean any composition that includes words,
    phrases, or sections of outside source
    material in juxtaposition.
    
    An early example is T.S. Eliot’s “The
    Waste Land,” which includes newspaper
    clippings, music lyrics, nursery rhymes,
    and overheard speech.
    
    Ezra Pound’s Cantos also use the technique
    extensively.
    
    For more examples of language-based
    collage see Susan Howe’s My Emily
    Dickinson and Ted Berrigan’s The Sonnets.

Commedia dell’arte
    Italian term for “theater of professional
    artists.” A theater form that emerged in
    northern Italy in the 15th century and
    spread throughout Europe.
    
    Commedia dell’arte relied on masked stock
    characters who improvised dialogue within
    a basic, often familiar plotline or story
    (such as the struggles of young lovers or
    marital infidelity).
    
    The commedias were performed by itinerant
    troupes of actors who could respond to
    contemporary events through extemporized
    commentary and impromptu asides.
    
    Stock characters developed specific
    attributes, props, costumes, and gestures;
    masks meant that dialect and movement
    rather than facial expression were
    important to their portrayal.
    
    Zanni (servants) for instance were
    subversive characters who stirred up
    trouble; the most famous of these is
    Harlequin, a gluttonous acrobat dressed in
    patchwork.
    
    Performances of commedias dwindled
    throughout the 18th century as more
    realistic forms of drama gained
    popularity.
    
    However, the influence of commedia
    dell’arte can be seen in theatrical forms
    such as pantomime, puppetry, and physical
    theatre.

Common measure
    A quatrain that rhymes ABAB and alternates
    four-stress and three-stress iambic lines.
    
    It is the meter of the hymn and the
    ballad.
    
    Many of Emily Dickinson’s poems are
    written in common measure, including [It
    was not death, for I stood up].
    
    See also Robert Hayden’s “The Ballad of
    Nat Turner” and Elinor Wylie’s “A Crowded
    Trolley Car.” See also Poulter’s measure
    and fourteener.
    
    Browse more common measure poems.

Complaint
    A poem of lament, often directed at an
    ill-fated love, as in Henry Howard’s
    “Complaint of the Absence of Her Love
    Being upon the Sea,” or Sir Philip
    Sidney’s “Astrophel and Stella XXXI.” A
    complaint may also be a satiric attack on
    social injustice and immorality; in “The
    Lie,” Sir Walter Ralegh bitterly rails
    against institutional hypocrisy and human
    vanity (“Tell men of high condition, /
    That manage the estate, / Their purpose is
    ambition, / Their practice only hate.”).

Conceit
    From the Latin term for “concept,” a
    poetic conceit is an often unconventional,
    logically complex, or surprising metaphor
    whose delights are more intellectual than
    sensual.
    
    Petrarchan (after the Italian poet
    Petrarch) conceits figure heavily in
    sonnets, and contrast more conventional
    sensual imagery to describe the experience
    of love.
    
    In Shakespeare’s “Sonnet XCVII: How like a
    Winter hath my Absence been,” for example,
    “What freezings have I felt, what dark
    days seen!” laments the lover, though his
    separation takes place in the fertile days
    of summer and fall.

    Less conventional, more esoteric
    associations characterize the metaphysical
    conceit.
    
    John Donne and other so-called
    metaphysical poets used conceits to fuse
    the sensory and the abstract, trading on
    the element of surprise and unlikeness to
    hold the reader’s attention.
    
    In “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning,”
    for instance, John Donne envisions two
    entwined lovers as the points of a
    compass.
    
    (For more on Donne’s conceits, see
    Stephanie Burt’s Poem Guide on John
    Donne's “The Sun Rising.”)

Conceptual
    An umbrella term for writing that ranges
    from the constraint-based practices of
    OuLiPo to Concrete poetry’s visual
    poetics.
    
    Nonreferential and interested in the
    materiality of language, conceptual poetry
    often relies on some organizing principle
    or information that is external to the
    text and can cross genres into visual or
    theoretical modes.
    
    Generally interested in blurring genres,
    conceptual poetry takes advantage of
    innovations in technology to question
    received notions of what it means to be
    “poetic” or to express a “self” in poetry.
    
    The ideas and practices of conceptual
    poetry are associated with a variety of
    writers including Kenneth Goldsmith, Craig
    Dworkin, Caroline Bergvall, Christian Bök,
    and Vanessa Place.
    
    Poetry magazine published a special
    section devoted to conceptual poetry in
    its July/August 2009 issue, guest-edited
    by Kenneth Goldsmith.

Concrete poetry
    Verse that emphasizes nonlinguistic
    elements in its meaning, such as a
    typeface that creates a visual image of
    the topic.
    
    Examples include George Herbert’s “Easter
    Wings” and “The Altar” and George
    Starbuck’s “Poem in the Shape of a Potted
    Christmas Tree”.
    
    Browse more concrete poems.

Confessional poetry
    Vividly self-revelatory verse associated
    with a number of American poets writing in
    the 1950s and 1960s, including Robert
    Lowell, W.D.
    
    Snodgrass, Sylvia Plath, Anne Sexton, and
    John Berryman.
    
    The term was first used by M.L.
    
    Rosenthal in a 1959 review of Life
    Studies, the collection in which Robert
    Lowell revealed his struggles with mental
    illness and a troubled marriage.
    
    Read an interview with Snodgrass in which
    he addresses his work and the work of
    others associated with confessionalism.
    
    Browse more poets who wrote confessional
    poems.

Consonance
    A resemblance in sound between two words,
    or an initial rhyme (see also
    Alliteration).
    
    Consonance can also refer to shared
    consonants, whether in sequence (“bed” and
    “bad”) or reversed (“bud” and “dab”).
    
    Browse poems with consonance.

Couplet
    A pair of successive rhyming lines,
    usually of the same length.
    
    A couplet is “closed” when the lines form
    a bounded grammatical unit like a sentence
    (see Dorothy Parker’s “Interview”: “The
    ladies men admire, I’ve heard, /Would
    shudder at a wicked word.”).
    
    The “heroic couplet” is written in iambic
    pentameter and features prominently in the
    work of 17th- and 18th-century didactic
    and satirical poets such as Alexander
    Pope: “Some have at first for wits, then
    poets pass’d, /Turn’d critics next, and
    proved plain fools at last.” Browse more
    couplet poems.

Cretic
    Also known as amphimacer.
    
    A Greek and Latin metrical foot consisting
    of a short syllable enclosed by two long
    syllables.
    
    Often found in folk poetry, its use in
    English poetry is rare, though instances
    can be found in proverbs and idiomatic
    expressions such as “After a while,
    crocodile.” Contemporary uses of the
    cretic can be found in slogans and
    advertising phrases, and it is often used
    to make comparisons.

Cultural criticism/cultural studies
    Developing in the 18th and 19th centuries
    among writers such as Jonathan Swift, John
    Ruskin and, especially, Matthew Arnold,
    cultural criticism as it is practiced
    today has significantly complicated older
    notions of culture, tradition and value.
    
    While Arnold believed in culture as a
    force of harmony and social change,
    cultural critics of the 20th century
    sought to extend and problematize such
    definitions.
    
    Theorists like Raymond Williams, Antonio
    Gramsci, and those connected with the
    Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies
    in Birmingham, England—as well as French
    intellectuals such Louis Althusser and
    Michel Foucault—described culture not as a
    finished product but as a process that
    joined knowledge to interest and power.
    
    Cultural critics critique the traditional
    canon and focus their attention on a
    variety of texts and discourses, tracing
    the interactions of both through an
    eclectic mix of interpretive strategies
    that include elements of economics,
    psychology, anthropology, sociology,
    gender studies, and new historicism.
    
    In critiquing the traditional canon,
    cultural critics avoid privileging one
    cultural product over another and often
    examine texts that are largely seen as
    marginal and unimportant in traditional
    criticism, such as those connected to
    various forms of pop culture.
    
    Essentially cross-disciplinary, cultural
    criticism and cultural studies have become
    important tools in theorizing the
    emergence and importance of postcolonial
    and multicultural literatures.

Curtal sonnet
    See Sonnet.

Dactyl
    A metrical foot consisting of an accented
    syllable followed by two unaccented
    syllables; the words “poetry” and
    “basketball” are both dactylic.
    
    Tennyson’s “The Charge of the Light
    Brigade” is written in dactylic meter.
    
    (See also double dactyl.)

Dada
    A movement that began in Zurich,
    Switzerland, in 1916 at the Cabaret
    Voltaire.
    
    The founders of this movement struck upon
    this essentially nonsense word to embody a
    simultaneously playful and nihilistic
    spirit alive among European visual artists
    and writers during and immediately after
    World War I.
    
    They salvaged a sense of freedom from the
    cultural and moral instability that
    followed the war, and embraced both
    “everything and nothing” in their desire
    to “sweep, sweep clean,” as Tristan Tzara
    wrote in his Dadaist Manifesto in 1920.
    
    In visual arts, this enterprise took the
    form of collage and juxtaposition of
    unrelated objects, as in the work of
    French artist Marcel Duchamp. T.S. Eliot’s
    and Ezra Pound’s allusive, often syntactically
    and imagistically fractured poems of this era
    reflect a Dadaist influence.
    
    Dadaism gave rise to surrealism.

Dark Room Collective
    An artists group formed in 1987 by Boston
    poets Thomas Sayers Ellis and Sharan
    Strange and musician Janice Lowe after
    they attended the funeral of James
    Baldwin.
    
    Based in a Victorian house near Harvard
    Square in Cambridge, they were inspired to
    celebrate living artists of color and to
    establish a reading series and to create
    comraderie and mentorships between black
    writers.
    
    Other members included poets Major
    Jackson, Natasha Trethewey, Kevin Young,
    Nehassaiu deGannes, and John Keene, among
    others.
    
    Over time the group grew to include scores
    of literary and visual artists.
    
    You can listen to a recording of the Dark
    Room Collective's 2012 reunion reading at
    the Poetry Foundation.

Deconstruction
    A poststructuralist theory mainly based on
    the writings of the French intellectual
    Jacques Derrida.
    
    Deconstruction posits that meaning, as
    accessed through language, is
    indeterminate because language itself is
    indeterminate.
    
    It is a system of signifiers that can
    never fully “mean”: a word can refer to an
    object but can never be that object.
    
    Derrida developed deconstruction as a
    response to certain strains of Western
    philosophy; in the United States,
    deconstruction was the focus of a group of
    literary theorists at Yale, including Paul
    de Man and Geoffrey Hartman.
    
    Used as a method of literary critique,
    deconstruction refocuses attention on a
    work as open-ended, endlessly available to
    interpretation, and far beyond the reach
    of authorial intention.
    
    Deconstruction traces how language
    generates meaning both within a text and
    across texts, while insisting that such
    meaning can only ever be provisional.

Deep Image
    A term originally coined by poets Jerome
    Rothenberg and Robert Kelly to describe
    stylized, resonant poetry that operated
    according to the Symbolist theory of
    correspondences, which posited a
    connection between the physical and
    spiritual realms.
    
    Rothenberg and Kelly were inspired by
    Federico García Lorca’s “deep song.” The
    idea was later redeveloped by the poet
    Robert Bly, and deep image became
    associated with a group of midcentury
    American poets including Galway Kinnell
    and James Wright.
    
    The new group of deep-image poets was
    often narrative, focusing on allowing
    concrete images and experiences to
    generate poetic meaning.

Didactic poetry
    Poetry that instructs, either in terms of
    morals or by providing knowledge of
    philosophy, religion, arts, science, or
    skills.
    
    Although some poets believe that all
    poetry is inherently instructional,
    didactic poetry separately refers to poems
    that contain a clear moral or message or
    purpose to convey to its readers.
    
    John Milton's epic Paradise Lost and
    Alexander Pope's An Essay on Man are
    famous examples.
    
    See also William Blake’s “A Divine Image,”
    Rudyard Kipling’s “If—,” and Alfred Lord
    Tennyson’s “In Memoriam.”

Dimeter
    A line of verse composed of two feet.
    
    “Some go local / Some go express / Some
    can’t wait / To answer Yes,” writes Muriel
    Rukeyser in her poem “Yes,” in which the
    dimeter line predominates.
    
    Kay Ryan’s “Blandeur” contains this series
    of mostly dimeter lines:

        Even out Earth’s
        rondure, flatten
        Eiger, blanden
        the Grand Canyon.
        Make valleys
        slightly higher,
        widen fissures
        to arable land,
        remand your
        terrible glaciers

Dirge
    A brief hymn or song of lamentation and
    grief; it was typically composed to be
    performed at a funeral.
    
    In lyric poetry, a dirge tends to be
    shorter and less meditative than an elegy.
    
    See Christina Rossetti’s “A Dirge” and Sir
    Philip Sidney’s “Ring Out Your Bells.”

Dissonance
    A disruption of harmonic sounds or
    rhythms.
    
    Like cacophony, it refers to a harsh
    collection of sounds; dissonance is
    usually intentional, however, and depends
    more on the organization of sound for a
    jarring effect, rather than on the
    unpleasantness of individual words.
    
    Gerard Manley Hopkins’s use of fixed
    stresses and variable unstressed
    syllables, combined with frequent
    assonance, consonance, and monosyllabic
    words, has a dissonant effect.
    
    See these lines from “Carrion Comfort”:

        Why? That my chaff might fly; my grain lie, sheer and clear.
        Nay in all that toil, that coil, since (seems) I kissed the rod,
        Hand rather, my heart lo! lapped strength, stole joy, would laugh, cheer.

    Gertrude Stein’s “Susie Asado” does not
    lack a musical quality, but its rapid
    repetition of sounds and varied sentence
    lengths create dissonance through tension
    and instability:

        This is a please this is a please there are the saids to jelly. These are the wets these say the sets to leave a crown to Incy.
        Incy is short for incubus.
        A pot. A pot is a beginning of a rare bit of trees. Trees tremble, the old vats are in bobbles, bobbles which shade and shove and render clean, render clean must.
        Drink pups.
        Drink pups drink pups lease a sash hold, see it shine and a bobolink has pins. It shows a nail.

Doggerel
    Bad verse traditionally characterized by
    clichés, clumsiness, and irregular meter.
    
    It is often unintentionally humorous.
    
    The “giftedly bad” William McGonagall was
    an accomplished doggerelist, as
    demonstrated in “The Tay Bridge Disaster”:

        It must have been an awful sight,
        To witness in the dusky moonlight,
        While the Storm Fiend did laugh, and angry did bray,
        Along the Railway Bridge of the Silv’ry Tay,
        Oh! ill-fated Bridge of the Silv’ry Tay,
        I must now conclude my lay
        By telling the world fearlessly without the least dismay,
        That your central girders would not have given way,
        At least many sensible men do say,
        Had they been supported on each side with buttresses,
        At least many sensible men confesses,
        For the stronger we our houses do build,
        The less chance we have of being killed.

Double dactyl
    A form of light verse invented and
    promoted by Paul Pascal, Anthony Hecht,
    and John Hollander.
    
    The double dactyl consists of two
    quatrains, each with three double-dactyl
    lines followed by a shorter dactyl-spondee
    pair.
    
    The two spondees rhyme.
    
    Additionally, the first line must be a
    nonsense phrase, the second line a proper
    or place name, and one other line, usually
    the sixth, a single double-dactylic word
    that has never been used before in any
    other double dactyl.
    
    For example:
         
          Higgledy piggledy,
          Bacon, lord Chancellor.
          Negligent, fell for the
          Paltrier vice.

          Bribery toppled him,
          Bronchopneumonia
          Finished him, testing some
          Poultry on ice.
                             (by Ian Lancashire)
 

Dramatic monologue
    A poem in which an imagined speaker
    addresses a silent listener, usually not
    the reader.
    
    Examples include Robert Browning’s “My
    Last Duchess,” T.S. Eliot’s “The Love Song
    of J.  Alfred Prufrock,” and Ai’s “Killing
    Floor.” A lyric may also be addressed to
    someone, but it is short and songlike and
    may appear to address either the reader or
    the poet.
    
    Browse more dramatic monologue poems.

Eclogue
    A brief, dramatic pastoral poem, set in an
    idyllic rural place but discussing urban,
    legal, political, or social issues.
    
    Bucolics and idylls, like eclogues, are
    pastoral poems, but in nondramatic form.
    
    See Edmund Spenser’s “Shepheardes
    Calendar: April,” Andrew Marvell’s “Nymph
    Complaining for the Death of Her Fawn,”
    and John Crowe Ransom’s “Eclogue.”

Ecopoetics
    Similar to ethnopoetics in its emphasis on
    drawing connections between human
    activity—specifically the making of
    poems—and the environment that produces
    it, ecopoetics rose out of the late 20th-
    century awareness of ecology and concerns
    over environmental disaster.
    
    A multidisciplinary approach that includes
    thinking and writing on poetics, science,
    and theory as well as emphasizing
    innovative approaches common to conceptual
    poetry, ecopoetics is not quite nature
    poetry.
    
    The influential journal Ecopoetics, edited
    by Jonathan Skinner, publishes writing
    that explores “creative-critical edges
    between making and writing” and features
    poets such as Jack Collom, Juliana Spahr,
    and Forrest Gander.

Ekphrasis
    “Description” in Greek.
    
    An ekphrastic poem is a vivid description
    of a scene or, more commonly, a work of
    art.
    
    Through the imaginative act of narrating
    and reflecting on the “action” of a
    painting or sculpture, the poet may
    amplify and expand its meaning.
    
    A notable example is “Ode on a Grecian
    Urn,” in which the poet John Keats
    speculates on the identity of the lovers
    who appear to dance and play music,
    simultaneously frozen in time and in
    perpetual motion:

               What men or gods are these? What maidens loth?
            What mad pursuit? What struggle to escape?
               What pipes and timbrels? What wild ecstasy?

            Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard
                     Are sweeter; therefore, ye soft pipes, play on;
            Not to the sensual ear, but, more endear’d,
                     Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone:
            Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leave
                     Thy song, nor ever can those trees be bare;
                 Bold Lover, never, never canst thou kiss,
            Though winning near the goal yet, do not grieve;
                   She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss,
                         For ever wilt thou love, and she be fair!

            Ah, happy, happy boughs! that cannot shed
                       Your leaves, nor ever bid the Spring adieu;
            And, happy melodist, unwearied,
                       For ever piping songs for ever new. . . .

    See W. S. DiPiero’s poem guide on Robert
    Browning for more on ekphrasis. Browse more
    ekphrastic poems.

Elegy
    In traditional English poetry, it is often
    a melancholy poem that laments its
    subject’s death but ends in consolation.
    
    Examples include John Milton’s “Lycidas”;
    Alfred, Lord Tennyson’s “In Memoriam”; and
    Walt Whitman’s “When Lilacs Last in the
    Dooryard Bloom'd.” More recently, Peter
    Sacks has elegized his father in “Natal
    Command,” and Mary Jo Bang has written
    “You Were You Are Elegy” and other poems
    for her son.
    
    In the 18th century the “elegiac stanza”
    emerged, though its use has not been
    exclusive to elegies.
    
    It is a quatrain with the rhyme scheme
    ABAB written in iambic pentameter.
    
    Browse more elegies.

Elision
    The omission of unstressed syllables
    (e.g., “ere” for “ever,” “tother” for “the
    other”), usually to fit a metrical scheme.
    
    “What dire offence from am’rous causes
    springs,” goes the first line of Alexander
    Pope’s The Rape of the Lock, in which
    “amorous” is elided to “am’rous” to
    establish the pentameter (five-foot) line.

Elizabethan Age
    The period coinciding with the reign of
    England’s Queen Elizabeth I (1558–1603),
    considered to be the literary height of
    the English Renaissance.
    
    Poets and dramatists drew inspiration from
    Italian forms and genres such as the love
    sonnet, the pastoral, and the allegorical
    epic.
    
    Musicality, verbal sophistication, and
    romantic exuberance dominated the era’s
    verse.
    
    Defining works include Edmund Spenser’s
    The Shephearde’s Calendar and The Faerie
    Queene, the sonnets of Sir Philip Sidney
    and William Shakespeare, and Sir Walter
    Raleigh’s lyrics.
    
    Drama especially flourished during this
    time; see the comedies and tragedies of
    William Shakespeare, Ben Jonson, and
    Christopher Marlowe.

Ellipsis
    In poetry, the omission of words whose
    absence does not impede the reader’s
    ability to understand the expression.
    
    For example, Shakespeare makes frequent
    use of the phrase “I will away” in his
    plays, with the missing verb understood to
    be “go.” T.S.
    
    Eliot employs ellipsis in the following
    passage from “Preludes”:

        You curled the papers from your hair,
        Or clasped the yellow soles of feet
        In the palms of both soiled hands. 

    The possessive “your” is left out in the
    second and third lines, but it can be
    assumed that the woman addressed by the
    speaker is clasping the soles of her own
    feet with her own hands.

Elliptical poetry
    A term coined in 1998 by poet and critic
    Stephen Burt in a review of Susan
    Wheeler’s Smokes.
    
    In the piece, which first appeared in the
    Boston Review, Burt describes elliptical
    poets as those who “try to manifest a
    person—who speaks the poem and reflects
    the poet—while using all the verbal gizmos
    developed over the last few decades to
    undermine the coherence of speaking
    selves.” Burt’s description of elliptical
    poetry emphasized its quick shifts in
    diction and referent, and use of occluded
    or partially obscured back-story.
    
    A special issue of American Letters and
    Commentary was devoted to elliptical
    poetry, sparking debates over contemporary
    trends and schools in American poetry.
    
    Burt pointed to several poets whose work
    commonly exhibits these features,
    including Mark Levine, Lucie Brock-Broido,
    and Liam Rector.

End-stopped
    A metrical line ending at a grammatical
    boundary or break—such as a dash or
    closing parenthesis—or with punctuation
    such as a colon, a semicolon, or a period.
    
    A line is considered end-stopped, too, if
    it contains a complete phrase.
    
    Many of Alexander Pope’s couplets are end-
    stopped, as in this passage from “An Essay
    on Man: Epistle I”:

        Then say not man’s imperfect, Heav’n in fault;
        Say rather, man’s as perfect as he ought:
        His knowledge measur’d to his state and place,
        His time a moment, and a point his space.
        If to be perfect in a certain sphere,
        What matter, soon or late, or here or there?
        The blest today is as completely so,
        As who began a thousand years ago. 

    The opposite of an end-stopped line is an
    enjambed line.

Enjambment
    The running-over of a sentence or phrase
    from one poetic line to the next, without
    terminal punctuation; the opposite of end-
    stopped.
    
    William Carlos Williams’s “Between Walls”
    is one sentence broken into 10 enjambed
    lines:

       the back wings
       of the

       hospital where
       nothing

       will grow lie
       cinders

       in which shine
       the broken

       pieces of a green
       bottle

Envoi (or Envoy)
    The brief stanza that ends French poetic
    forms such as the ballade or sestina.
    
    It usually serves as a summation or a
    dedication to a particular person.
    
    See Hilaire Belloc’s satirical “Ballade of
    Modest Confession.”

Epic
    A long narrative poem in which a heroic
    protagonist engages in an action of great
    mythic or historical significance.
    
    Notable English epics include Beowulf,
    Edmund Spenser’s The Faerie Queene (which
    follows the virtuous exploits of 12
    knights in the service of the mythical
    King Arthur), and John Milton’s Paradise
    Lost, which dramatizes Satan’s fall from
    Heaven and humankind’s subsequent
    alienation from God in the Garden of Eden.
    
    Browse more epics.

Epic simile
    A detailed, often complex poetic
    comparison (see simile) that unfolds over
    the course of several lines.
    
    It is also known as a Homeric simile,
    because the Greek poet Homer is thought to
    have originated the device in the epic
    poems The Iliad and The Odyssey.
    
    In the following passage from Book I of
    Paradise Lost, John Milton compares
    Lucifer’s massive army to scattered autumn
    leaves:

        His legions—angel forms, who lay entranc’d
        Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks
        In Vallombrosa, where th’ Etrurian shades
        High over-arch’d embow’r; or scatter’d sedge
        Afloat, when with fierce winds Orion arm’d
        Hath vex’d the Red-Sea coast, whose waves o’erthrew
        Busiris and his Memphian chivalry,
        While with perfidious hatred they pursu’d
        The sojourners of Goshen, who beheld
        From the safe shore their floating carkases
        And broken chariot-wheels: so thick bestrown,
        Abject and lost, lay these, covering the flood,
        Under amazement of their hideous change.

Epigram
    A pithy, often witty, poem.
    
    See Walter Savage Landor’s “Dirce,” Ben
    Jonson’s “On Gut,” or much of the work of
    J.V.
    
    Cunningham:

       This Humanist whom no beliefs constrained
       Grew so broad-minded he was scatter-brained.

Epigraph
    A quotation from another literary work
    that is placed beneath the title at the
    beginning of a poem or section of a poem.
    
    For example, Grace Schulman’s “American
    Solitude” opens with a quote from an essay
    by Marianne Moore.
    
    Lines from Phillis Wheatley’s “On Being
    Brought from Africa to America” preface
    Alfred Corn’s “Sugar Cane.” Browse more
    poems with epigraphs.

Epistle
    A letter in verse, usually addressed to a
    person close to the writer.
    
    Its themes may be moral and philosophical,
    or intimate and sentimental.
    
    Alexander Pope favored the form; see his
    “Epistle to Dr.
    
    Arbuthnot,” in which the poet addresses a
    physician in his social circle.
    
    The epistle peaked in popularity in the
    18th century, though Lord Byron and Robert
    Browning composed several in the next
    century; see Byron’s “Epistle to Augusta.”
    Less formal, more conversational versions
    of the epistle can be found in
    contemporary lyric poetry; see Hayden
    Carruth’s “The Afterlife: Letter to Sam
    Hamill” or “Dear Mr. Fanelli” by Charles
    Bernstein.

Epitaph
    A short poem intended for (or imagined as)
    an inscription on a tombstone and often
    serving as a brief elegy.
    
    See Robert Herrick’s “Upon a Child That
    Died” and “Upon Ben Jonson”; Ben Jonson’s
    “Epitaph on Elizabeth, L.
    
    H.”; and “Epitaph for a Romantic Woman” by
    Louise Bogan.

Epithalamion
    A lyric poem in praise of Hymen (the Greek
    god of marriage), an epithalamion often
    blesses a wedding and in modern times is
    often read at the wedding ceremony or
    reception.
    
    See Edmund Spenser’s “Epithalamion.”
    Browse more epithalamions.

Ethnopoetics
    In linguistics, folkloristics and
    anthropology, a method of analyzing
    linguistic structures in oral literature.
    
    The term was coined in 1968 by Jerome
    Rothenberg, whose anthology Technicians of
    the Sacred is considered a definitive text
    of the movement.
    
    In poetry, ethnopoetics refers to non-
    Western, non-canonical poetries, often
    those coming from ancient and
    autochthonous cultures.
    
    In the early 20th century, Modernist and
    avant-garde poets such as Antonin Artaud
    and Tristan Tzara used “primitive” or oral
    traditions in their work; by midcentury, a
    curiosity regarding world literature had
    coalesced into a movement led by
    Rothenberg and Dennis Tedlock, who
    together edited the journal Alcheringa
    from 1970 to 1980.
    
    Contemporary poets with an interest in
    ethnopoetics include Gary Snyder, Kathleen
    Stewart, and William Bright.

Feminist theory
    An extension of feminism’s critique of
    male power and ideology, feminist theory
    combines elements of other theoretical
    models such as psychoanalysis, Marxism,
    poststructuralism, and deconstruction to
    interrogate the role of gender in the
    writing, interpretation, and dissemination
    of literary texts.
    
    Originally concerned with the politics of
    women’s authorship and representations of
    women in literature, feminist theory has
    recently begun to examine ideas of gender
    and sexuality across a wide range of
    disciplines including film studies,
    geography, and even economics.
    
    Feminist theory emerged from the struggle
    for women’s rights, beginning in the 18th
    century with Mary Wollstonecraft’s
    publication of A Vindication of the Rights
    of Woman.
    
    Important feminist theorists of the 20th
    century include Betty Friedan, Julia
    Kristeva, Judith Butler, Elaine Showalter,
    Carol Gilligan, and Adrienne Rich.

Figure of speech
    An expressive, nonliteral use of language.
    
    Figures of speech include tropes (such as
    hyperbole, irony, metaphor, and simile)
    and schemes (anything involving the
    ordering and organizing of words—anaphora,
    antithesis, and chiasmus, for example).
    
    Browse all terms related to figures of
    speech.

Fireside Poets
    The Fireside poets were a group of 19th-
    century American poets, mostly situated in
    the Northeast United States.
    
    Also referred to as the schoolroom or
    household poets, they wrote in
    conventional poetic forms to present
    domestic themes and moral issues.
    
    The “fireside” moniker arose out of their
    popularity, as families would read their
    books by the fire in their homes.
    
    Highly popular among both general readers
    and critics, the Fireside poets deeply
    shaped their era until their decline in
    popularity in the early 1900s.
    
    Poets often included in this group were
    Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, John Greenleaf
    Whittier, James Russell Lowell, William
    Cullen Bryant, and Oliver Wendell Holmes
    Sr.
    
    These poets' general adherence to standard
    poetic forms, rhythm, meter, and rhyme
    made their poetry especially suitable for
    memorization and recitation.
    
    Their themes and their presentation of
    traditional and nationalist values made
    them popular poets to teach.

Fixed and unfixed forms
    Poems that have a set number of lines,
    rhymes, and/or metrical arrangements per
    line.
    
    Browse all terms related to forms,
    including alcaics, alexandrine, aubade,
    ballad, ballade, carol, concrete poetry,
    double dactyl, dramatic monologue,
    eclogue, elegy, epic, epistle,
    epithalamion, free verse, haiku, heroic
    couplet, limerick, madrigal, mock epic,
    ode, ottava rima, pastoral, quatrain,
    renga, rondeau, rondel, sestina, sonnet,
    Spenserian stanza, tanka, tercet, terza
    rima, and villanelle.

Flarf
    Originally a prank on the scam contest
    sponsored by the organization Poetry.com,
    the experimental poetry movement flarf has
    slowly assumed a serious position as a new
    kind of Internet-based poetic practice.
    
    Known for its reliance on Google as a
    means of generating odd juxtapositions,
    surfaces, and grammatical inaccuracies,
    flarf also celebrates deliberately bad or
    “incorrect” poetry by forcing clichés,
    swear words, onomatopoeia, and other
    linguistic aberrations into poetic shape.
    
    Original flarf member Gary Sullivan
    describes flarf as “a kind of corrosive,
    cute, or cloying awfulness. Wrong. Un-P.C.
    Out of control. ‘Not okay.’” Flarf poets
    collaborate on poems, revising and sometimes
    plagiarizing them in semipublic spaces such as
    blogs or webzines.
    
    Original members of the “Flarfist
    Collective” include Sullivan, Sharon
    Mesmer, K. Silem Mohammad, and Nada
    Gordon.
    
    Poetry magazine published a special
    section devoted to flarf in its
    July/August 2009 issue, guest-edited by
    Kenneth Goldsmith.
        
Foot
    The foot is the basic repeating rhythmic
    unit that forms part of a line of verse in
    most Indo-European traditions of poetry,
    including English accentual-syllabic verse
    and the quantitative meter of classical
    ancient Greek and Latin poetry.

    The basic unit of measurement of
    accentual-syllabic meter.
    
    A foot usually contains one stressed
    syllable and at least one unstressed
    syllable.
    
    The standard types of feet in English
    poetry are the iamb, trochee, dactyl,
    anapest, spondee, and pyrrhic (two
    unstressed syllables).

Formalism (Russian)
    A brief but influential 20th-century
    critical method that originated in St.
    
    Petersburg through the group OPOYAZ, and
    in Moscow via the Moscow Linguistic
    Circle.
    
    Important Formalists included Roman
    Jakobson and Viktor Shklovsky.
    
    Formalism viewed literature as a distinct
    and separate entity, unconnected to
    historical or social causes or effects.
    
    It analyzed literature according to
    devices unique to literary works and
    focused on the “literariness” of a text:
    words were not simply stand-ins for
    objects but objects themselves.
    
    Formalists advanced the concept of
    ostranenie, or defamiliarization, arguing
    that literature, by calling attention to
    itself as such, estranged the reader from
    ordinary experience and made the familiar
    seem new.
    
    Formalism’s tendency to collapse form and
    content is somewhat similar to New
    Criticism’s approach, though its main
    influence was on structuralism.

Found poem
    A prose text or texts reshaped by a poet
    into quasi-metrical lines.
    
    Fragments of found poetry may appear
    within an original poem as well.
    
    Portions of Ezra Pound’s Cantos are found
    poetry, culled from historical letters and
    government documents.
    
    Charles Olson created his poem “There Was
    a Youth whose Name Was Thomas Granger”
    using a report from William Bradford’s
    History of Plymouth Plantation.

Fourteener
    A metrical line of 14 syllables (usually
    seven iambic feet).
    
    A relatively long line, it can be found in
    narrative poetry from the Middle Ages
    through the 16th century.
    
    Fourteener couplets broken into quatrains
    are known as common measure or ballad
    meter.
    
    See also Poulter’s measure.

Free verse
    Nonmetrical, nonrhyming lines that closely
    follow the natural rhythms of speech.
    
    A regular pattern of sound or rhythm may
    emerge in free-verse lines, but the poet
    does not adhere to a metrical plan in
    their composition.
    
    Matthew Arnold and Walt Whitman explored
    the possibilities of nonmetrical poetry in
    the 19th century.
    
    Since the early 20th century, the majority
    of published lyric poetry has been written
    in free verse.
    
    See the work of William Carlos Williams,
    T.S. Eliot, Ezra Pound, and H.D.
    
    Browse more free-verse poems.

Fugitives
    A group of Southern poets associated with
    the Fugitive, a literary magazine produced
    in the early 1920s.
    
    Its prominent ranks included Randall
    Jarrell, Allen Tate, John Crowe Ransom,
    and Robert Penn Warren.
    
    In general, their poetry was formal,
    featuring traditional prosody and concrete
    imagery frequently drawn from the rural
    Southern experience.
    
    These poet-critics’ principles gave rise
    to the method of close reading and textual
    analysis known as New Criticism.
    
    Browse more Fugitive poets.

Futurism
    An avant-garde aesthetic movement that
    arose in Italy and Russia in the early
    20th century.
    
    Its proponents—predominantly painters and
    other visual artists—called for a
    rejection of past forms of expression, and
    the embrace of industry and new
    technology.
    
    Speed and violence were the favored
    vehicles of sensation, rather than
    lyricism, symbolism, and “high” culture.
    
    F.
    
    T.
    
    Marinetti, in his futurist Manifesto
    (1909), advocated “words in freedom”—a
    language unbound by common syntax and
    order that, along with striking variations
    in typography, could quickly convey
    intense emotions.
    
    Marinetti and other Italian futurists
    allied themselves with militaristic
    nationalism, which alienated their cause
    internationally following World War II.
    
    Russian futurist poets such as Velimir
    Khlebnikov and Vladimir Mayakovsky
    profoundly influenced the development of
    Russian formalism, while in England the
    futurist movement was expressed as
    Vorticism by Ezra Pound and Wyndham Lewis
    in their magazine BLAST.
    
    Listen to “Futurism and the New Manifesto”
    here.
    
    See also Mina Loy’s “Aphorisms on
    Futurism”.

Gender studies
    An interdisciplinary approach to the study
    of gender, sexual categories, and
    identity.
    
    As a discipline, gender studies borrows
    from other theoretical models like
    psychoanalysis—particularly that of
    Jacques Lacan—deconstruction, and feminist
    theory in an attempt to examine the social
    and cultural constructions of masculinity
    and femininity as they relate to class,
    race, ethnicity, and sexuality.
    
    Like gender studies, queer theory also
    questions normative definitions of gender
    and sexuality.
    
    As approaches to literary texts, gender
    studies and queer theory tend to emphasize
    the power of representation and linguistic
    indeterminacy.

Genre
    A class or category of texts with
    similarities in form, style, or subject
    matter.
    
    The definition of a genre changes over
    time, and a text often interacts with
    multiple genres.
    
    A text’s relationship to a particular
    genre—whether it defies or supports a
    genre’s set of expectations—is often of
    interest when conducting literary
    analysis.
    
    Four major genres of literature include
    poetry, drama, nonfiction, and fiction.
    
    Poetry can be divided into further genres,
    such as epic, lyric, narrative, satirical,
    or prose poetry.
    
    For more examples of genres, browse poems
    by type.

Georgianism
    A poetic movement in England during the
    reign of George V (1910–1936), promoted in
    the anthology series Georgian Poetry.
    
    Its ranks included Rupert Brooke,
    Siegfried Sassoon, Walter de la Mare,
    Robert Graves, A.E. Housman, and D.H.
    Lawrence.
    
    The aesthetic principles of Georgianism
    included a respect for formalism as well
    as bucolic and romantic subject matter.
    
    The devastation of World War I, along with
    the rise of modernism, signaled the
    retreat of Georgianism as an influential
    school of poetry.
    
    Browse more Georgian poets.

Georgic
    A poem or book dealing with agriculture or
    rural topics, which commonly glorifies
    outdoor labor and simple country life.
    
    Often takes the form of a didactic or
    instructive poem intended to give
    instructions related to a skill or art.
    
    The Roman poet Virgil famously wrote a
    collection of poems entitled Georgics,
    which has influenced poets since.
    
    Read a translated excerpt from Virgil's
    Georgics Book III or Book IV.

Ghazal
    (Pronounciation: “guzzle”) Originally an
    Arabic verse form dealing with loss and
    romantic love, medieval Persian poets
    embraced the ghazal, eventually making it
    their own.
    
    Consisting of syntactically and
    grammatically complete couplets, the form
    also has an intricate rhyme scheme.
    
    Each couplet ends on the same word or
    phrase (the radif), and is preceded by the
    couplet’s rhyming word (the qafia, which
    appears twice in the first couplet).
    
    The last couplet includes a proper name,
    often of the poet’s.
    
    In the Persian tradition, each couplet was
    of the same meter and length, and the
    subject matter included both erotic
    longing and religious belief or mysticism.
    
    English-language poets who have composed
    in the form include Adrienne Rich, John
    Hollander, and Agha Shahid Ali; see Ali’s
    “Tonight” and Patricia Smith’s “Hip-Hop
    Ghazal.”

Gnomic verse
    Poems laced with proverbs, aphorisms, or
    maxims.
    
    The term was first applied to Greek poets
    in the 6th century BCE and was practiced
    in medieval Germany and England.
    
    See excerpts from the Exeter Book.
    
    Robert Creeley explored the genre in his
    contemporary “Gnomic Verses.”

Haiku (or hokku)
    A Japanese verse form most often composed,
    in English versions, of three unrhymed
    lines of five, seven, and five syllables.
    
    A haiku often features an image, or a pair
    of images, meant to depict the essence of
    a specific moment in time.

    Not popularized in Western literature
    until the early 1900s, the form originates
    from the Japanese hokku, or the opening
    section of a longer renga sequence.
    
    In this context, the hokku served to begin
    a longer poem by establishing a season,
    often with a pair of seasonal images.
    
    Unlike the rest of the renga sequence,
    which was composed collaboratively, the
    hokku was often created by a single poet
    working alone, and was subsequently used
    as an exercise for students.
    
    Over time, the hokku began to be
    appreciated for its own worth and became
    distinct as a poetic form, formally
    mastered by poets such as Basho and Yosa
    Buson.

    In 1905, Paul-Louis Couchoud became one of
    the first European translators of the
    form, converting many short Japanese
    verses into his native French.
    
    This began the popularization of haiku in
    Europe, where the form was translated by
    French and Spanish poets, such as José
    Juan Tablada.
    
    Throughout the two World Wars and the rise
    of Modernism, haikus were gradually
    adapted and celebrated by Imagist poets,
    such as Ezra Pound, H.D., and T.E.
    
    Hulme.
    
    In this context, the haiku was appreciated
    for its linguistic and sensory economy.
    
    Most notably Pound’s “In a Station of the
    Metro,” though not intended as a haiku,
    adapts the sparse, visual style of the
    Japanese form.
    
    Despite its formal history, the haiku’s
    composition has expanded somewhat over
    time.
    
    This is due in part to the differences
    between the Japanese language and Western
    languages.
    
    In its original Japanese form, the haiku
    is often divided into 17 mora (a Japanese
    unit of syllable weight) and arranged in a
    single vertical line.
    
    However, in English there is no exact
    equivalent to the mora unit.
    
    As a result, in English and other
    languages, haikus are most frequently
    adapted into three lines of verse, usually
    unrhymed, composed of five, seven, and
    five syllables, adding up to seventeen
    syllables total.
    
    However, many American poets, such as Jack
    Kerouac, began to gradually depart from
    this traditional syllable and line count,
    in favor of depicting images as succinctly
    as possible.
    
    Despite its many adaptions into multiple
    languages and styles, the haiku remains a
    powerful form due to its economic use of
    language to evoke a specific mood or
    instance.
    
    Most often occurring in the present tense,
    a haiku frequently depicts a moment by
    using pair of distinct images working in
    tandem, as in these lines by Kobayashi
    Issa, translated by Jane Hirshfield:
        On a branch
        floating downriver
        a cricket, singing.

    (Notice how, in translating from Japanese
    to English, Hirshfield compresses the
    number of syllables.) The haiku continues
    to be a popular form today, and its
    different qualities have been emphasized
    and expanded by a wide variety of writers.
    
    Poets such as Etheridge Knight emphasize
    the formal and sonic quality of the verse,
    as seen in his piece “Haiku,” whereas
    poets such as Scott Helmes have chosen to
    emphasize the haiku’s visual arrangement,
    as seen in his piece, “haiku #62.” For
    further examples, see also “Three Haiku,
    Two Tanka” by Philip Appleman and Robert
    Hass’s “After the Gentle Poet Kobayashi
    Issa.” In addition, see the Imagist poets
    of the early 20th century, most notably
    Ezra Pound.

    Look here to browse more haiku.

Harlem Renaissance
    A period of musical, literary, and
    cultural proliferation that began in New
    York’s African-American community during
    the 1920s and early 1930s.
    
    The movement was key to developing a new
    sense of Black identity and aesthetics as
    writers, visual artists, and musicians
    articulated new modes of African-American
    experience and experimented with artistic
    forms, modernist techniques, and folk
    culture.
    
    Harlem Renaissance artists and activists
    also influenced French and Caribbean
    Négritude and Negrismo movements in
    addition to laying a foundation for future
    Black Arts champions like Sonia Sanchez
    and Amiri Baraka.
    
    Writing luminaries of the Harlem
    Renaissance include Langston Hughes,
    Countee Cullen, James Weldon Johnson,
    Claude McKay, Zora Neale Hurston, Jean
    Toomer, Nella Larsen, and Arna Bontemps.
    
    Important publications included the
    anthology The New Negro (1925), edited by
    Alan Locke, and the magazines Crisis,
    Opportunity, Fire!!, and the Messenger.
    
    See also Hughes’s essay “The Negro Artist
    and the Racial Mountain” (1926) and
    Elizabeth Alexander’s more recent
    historical article “The Black Poet as
    Canon-Maker”.
    
    Browse more Harlem Renaissance poets.

Hendecasyllabic
    A Classical Greek and Latin metrical line
    consisting of 11 syllables: typically a
    spondee or trochee, a choriamb, and two
    iambs, the second of which has an
    additional syllable at the end.
    
    The classical Latin poet Catullus favored
    the line.
    
    It is seldom used in English, although
    Algernon Charles Swinburne worked with the
    meter in “Hendecasyllabics”:

        In the month of the long decline of roses
        I, beholding the summer dead before me,
        Set my face to the sea and journeyed silent,
        Gazing eagerly where above the sea-mark
        Flame as fierce as the fervid eyes of lions
        Half divided the eyelids of the sunset . . .

Heptameter
    A meter made up of seven feet and usually
    14 syllables total (see Fourteener).
    
    George Chapman’s translation of Homer’s
    the Iliad is written in heptameter, as is
    Edgar Allan Poe’s “Annabel Lee.” See also
    Poulter’s measure.

Heroic couplet
    See couplet.

Hexameter
    A metrical line of six feet, most often
    dactylic, and found in Classical Latin or
    Greek poetry, including Homer’s Iliad.
    
    In English, an iambic hexameter line is
    also known as an alexandrine.
    
    Only a few poets have written in dactylic
    hexameter, including Henry Wadsworth
    Longfellow in the long poem Evangeline:

               Now had the season returned, when the nights grow colder and longer,
               And the retreating sun the sign of the Scorpion enters.
               Birds of passage sailed through the leaden air, from the ice-bound,
               Desolate northern bays to the shores of tropical islands.

Horatian ode
    See ode.

Hymn
    A poem praising God or the divine, often
    sung.
    
    In English, the most popular hymns were
    written between the 17th and 19th
    centuries.
    
    See Isaac Watts’s “Our God, Our Help,”
    Charles Wesley’s “My God! I Know, I Feel
    Thee Mine,” and “Thou Hidden Love of God”
    by John Wesley.

Hyperbole
    A figure of speech composed of a striking
    exaggeration.
    
    For example, see James Tate’s lines “She
    scorched you with her radiance” or “He was
    more wronged than Job.” Hyperbole usually
    carries the force of strong emotion, as in
    Andrew Marvell’s description of a forlorn
    lover:

             The sea him lent those bitter tears
             Which at his eyes he always wears;
             And from the winds the sighs he bore,
             Which through his surging breast do roar.
             No day he saw but that which breaks
             Through frighted clouds in forkèd streaks,
             While round the rattling thunder hurled,
             As at the funeral of the world.

Iamb
    A metrical foot consisting of an
    unaccented syllable followed by an
    accented syllable.
    
    The words “unite” and “provide” are both
    iambic.
    
    It is the most common meter of poetry in
    English (including all the plays and poems
    of William Shakespeare), as it is closest
    to the rhythms of English speech.
    
    In Robert Frost’s “After Apple Picking”
    the iamb is the vehicle for the “natural,”
    colloquial speech pattern:

       My long two-pointed ladder’s sticking through a tree
       Toward heaven still,
       And there’s a barrel that I didn’t fill
       Beside it, and there may be two or three
       Apples I didn’t pick upon some bough.
       But I am done with apple-picking now.
       Essence of winter sleep is on the night,
       The scent of apples: I am drowsing off.

Imagery
    Elements of a poem that invoke any of the
    five senses to create a set of mental
    images.
    
    Specifically, using vivid or figurative
    language to represent ideas, objects, or
    actions.
    
    Poems that use rich imagery include T.S.
    
    Eliot’s “Preludes,” Percy Bysshe Shelley’s
    “Ode to the West Wind,” Sylvia Plath’s
    “Daddy,” and Mary Oliver’s “At Black
    River.”

Imagism
    An early 20th-century poetic movement that
    relied on the resonance of concrete images
    drawn in precise, colloquial language
    rather than traditional poetic diction and
    meter. T.E. Hulme, H.D., and William
    Carlos Williams were practitioners of the
    imagist principles as laid out by Ezra
    Pound in the March 1913 issue of Poetry
    (see “A Retrospect” and “A Few Don'ts”).
            
    Amy Lowell built a strain of imagism that
    used some of Pound's principles and
    rejected others in her Preface to the 1916
    anthology, Some Imagist Poets.

Invocation
    An address to a deity or muse that often
    takes the form of a request for help in
    composing the poem at hand.
    
    Invocations can occur at the beginning of
    the poem or start of a new canto; they are
    considered conventions of the epic form
    and are a type of apostrophe.
    
    See the opening of John Milton’s Paradise
    Lost.
    
    Alexander Pope mocked the convention in
    the first canto of “The Rape of the Lock.”
    A contemporary example is Denise
    Levertov’s poem “Invocation.”

Irony
    As a literary device, irony implies a
    distance between what is said and what is
    meant.
    
    Based on the context, the reader is able
    to see the implied meaning in spite of the
    contradiction.
    
    When William Shakespeare relates in detail
    how his lover suffers in comparison with
    the beauty of nature in “My Mistress’ Eyes
    Are Nothing like the Sun,” it is
    understood that he is elevating her beyond
    these comparisons; considering her essence
    as a whole, and what she means to the
    speaker, she is more beautiful than
    nature.

    Dramatic or situational irony involves a
    contrast between reality and a character’s
    intention or ideals.
    
    For example, in Sophocles’ Greek tragedy
    Oedipus Rex, King Oedipus searches for his
    father’s murderer, not knowing that he
    himself is that man.
    
    In “The Convergence of the Twain,” Thomas
    Hardy contrasts the majesty and beauty of
    the ocean liner Titanic with its tragic
    fate and new ocean-bottom inhabitants:

             Over the mirrors meant
                          To glass the opulent
            The sea-worm crawls — grotesque, slimed, dumb, indifferent.

Italian sonnet
    See Sonnet.

Kenning
    A figurative compound word that takes the
    place of an ordinary noun.
    
    Many kennings rely on myths or legends to
    make meaning and are found in Old
    Germanic, Norse, and English poetry,
    including The Seafarer, in which the ocean
    is called a “whale-path.” (See Ezra
    Pound’s translation).
    
    “The Oven Bird” by Robert Frost also
    includes examples such as “mid-wood” and
    “petal-fall.” The speaker in Frank
    Bidart’s poem, “The Third Hour of the
    Night,” mentions a creature referred to as
    the “wound-dresser.” See also Franny
    Choi’s “The Second Mouth.”

Lament
    Any poem expressing deep grief, usually at
    the death of a loved one or some other
    loss.
    
    Related to elegy and the dirge.
    
    See “A Lament” by Percy Bysshe Shelley;
    Thom Gunn’s “Lament”; and Edna St.
    
    Vincent Millay’s “Lament.”

Landays
    A form of folk poetry from Afghanistan.
    
    Meant to be recited or sung aloud, and
    frequently anonymous, the form is a
    couplet comprised of 22 syllables.
    
    The first line has 9 syllables and the
    second line 13 syllables.
    
    Landays end on “ma” or “na” sounds and
    treat themes such as love, grief,
    homeland, war, and separation.
    
    See Eliza Griswold’s extensive reporting
    on the form in the June 2013 issue of
    Poetry, in which she explains how the form
    was created by and for the more than 20
    million Pashtun women who span the border
    between Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Language poetry
    Taking its name from the magazine edited
    by Charles Bernstein and Bruce Andrews
    (L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E), Language poetry is an
    avant garde poetry movement that emerged
    in the late 1960’s and early 1970’s as a
    response to mainstream American poetry.
    
    It developed from diverse communities of
    poets in San Francisco and New York who
    published in journals such as This, Hills,
    Tottels, L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E, and Tuumba
    Press.
    
    Rather than emphasizing traditional poetic
    techniques, Language poetry tends to draw
    the reader’s attention to the uses of
    language in a poem that contribute to the
    creation of meaning.
    
    The writing associated with language
    poetry, including that by Michael Palmer,
    Lyn Hejinian, Ron Silliman, Susan Howe,
    Rae Armantrout, and many others, is often
    associated with deconstruction,
    poststructuralism, and the Objectivist
    tradition.
    
    Browse more Language poetry.

Light verse
    Whimsical poems taking forms such as
    limericks, nonsense poems, and double
    dactyls.
    
    See Edward Lear’s “The Owl and the Pussy-
    Cat” and Lewis Carroll’s “The Walrus and
    the Carpenter.” Other masters of light
    verse include Dorothy Parker, G.K.
    
    Chesterton, John Hollander, and Wendy
    Cope.

Limerick
    A fixed light-verse form of five generally
    anapestic lines rhyming AABBA.
    
    Edward Lear, who popularized the form,
    fused the third and fourth lines into a
    single line with internal rhyme.
    
    Limericks are traditionally bawdy or just
    irreverent; see “A Young Lady of Lynn” or
    Lear’s “There was an Old Man with a
    Beard.” Browse more limericks.

Litany
    Initially a prayer or supplication used in
    formal and religious processions, the
    litany has been more recently adopted as a
    poetic form that catalogues a series.
    
    This form typically includes repetitious
    phrases or movements, sometimes mimicking
    call-and-response.
    
    These examples by Luis Chaves, Richard
    Siken, and Cory Wade are poems explicitly
    noted as litanies, while others such as
    Ginsberg’s “Kaddish” sustain the form’s
    elements throughout.

Litotes
    A deliberate understatement for effect;
    the opposite of hyperbole.
    
    For example, a good idea may be described
    as “not half bad,” or a difficult task
    considered “no small feat.” Litotes is
    found frequently in Old English poetry;
    “That was a good king,” declares the
    narrator of the Beowulf epic after
    summarizing the Danish king’s great
    virtues.
    
    See also Irony.

Lyric
    Originally a composition meant for musical
    accompaniment.
    
    The term refers to a short poem in which
    the poet, the poet’s persona, or another
    speaker expresses personal feelings.
    
    See Robert Herrick’s “To Anthea, who May
    Command Him Anything,” John Clare’s “I Hid
    My Love,” Louise Bogan’s “Song for the
    Last Act,” or Louise Glück’s “Vita Nova.”

Madrigal
    A song or short lyric poem intended for
    multiple singers.
    
    Originating in 14th-century Italy, it
    became popular in England in the late 15th
    and early 16th centuries.
    
    It has no fixed metrical requirements.
    
    See “Rosalind’s Madrigal” by Thomas Lodge.

Marxism
    A type of literary criticism based on the
    writings of German philosopher Karl Marx.
    
    In its simplest form, Marxist criticism
    attempts to show the relationship between
    literature and the social—mainly
    economic—conditions under which it was
    produced.
    
    Originally, Marxist critics focused on
    literary representations of workers and
    working classes.
    
    For later Marxists, however, literature
    became a document of a kind of knowledge
    and a record of the historical conditions
    that produced that knowledge.
    
    Like cultural criticism, Marxist literary
    criticism offers critiques of the “canon”
    and focuses on the ways in which culture
    and power intersect; for a Marxist critic,
    literature both reproduces existing power
    relations and offers a space where they
    can be contested and redefined.
    
    Important 20th-century Marxist literary
    critics include Georg Lucáks, Antonio
    Gramsci, Louis Althusser, Terry Eagleton,
    Raymond Williams, and Frederic Jameson.

Metaphor
    A comparison that is made directly (for
    example, John Keats’s “Beauty is truth,
    truth beauty” from “Ode on a Grecian Urn”)
    or less directly (for example,
    Shakespeare’s “marriage of two minds”),
    but in any case without pointing out a
    similarity by using words such as “like,”
    “as,” or “than.” See Sylvia Plath’s
    description of her dead father as “Marble-
    heavy, a bag full of God” in “Daddy,” or
    Emily Dickinson’s “‘Hope’ is the thing
    with feathers— / That perches in the
    soul—.” Browse poems with developed
    metaphors.

Metaphysical poets
    A group of 17th-century poets whose works
    are marked by philosophical exploration,
    colloquial diction, ingenious conceits,
    irony, and metrically flexible lines.
    
    Topics of interest often included love,
    religion, and morality, which the
    metaphysical poets considered through
    unusual comparisons, frequently employing
    unexpected similes and metaphors in
    displays of wit.
    
    The inclusion of contemporary scientific
    advancements were also typical.
    
    John Donne is the foremost figure, along
    with George Herbert, Andrew Marvell,
    Abraham Cowley, Richard Crashaw, and Henry
    Vaughan.
    
    For more on metaphysical poetry, see
    Stephanie Burt’s poem guide on John
    Donne's “The Sun Rising.”

Meter
    The rhythmical pattern of stressed and
    unstressed syllables in verse.
    
    The predominant meter in English poetry is
    accentual-syllabic.
    
    See also accentual meter, syllabic meter,
    and quantitative meter.
    
    Falling meter refers to trochees and
    dactyls (i.e., a stressed syllable
    followed by one or two unstressed
    syllables).
    
    Iambs and anapests (i.e., one or two
    unstressed syllables followed by a
    stressed one) are called rising meter.
    
    See also foot.

Metonymy
    A figure of speech in which a related term
    is substituted for the word itself.
    
    Often the substitution is based on a
    material, causal, or conceptual relation
    between things.
    
    For example, the British monarchy is often
    referred to as the Crown.
    
    In the phrase “lend me your ears,” “ears”
    is substituted for “attention.” “O, for a
    draught of vintage!” exclaims the speaker
    in John Keats’s “Ode to Nightingale,” with
    “vintage” understood to mean “wine.”
    Synecdoche is closely related to metonymy.

Mimesis (imitation)
    Greek for “imitation.” In aesthetic
    theory, mimesis can also connote
    “representation,” and has typically meant
    the reproduction of an external reality,
    such as nature, through artistic
    expression.
    
    Plato disparaged mimesis for merely
    providing inferior copies of original
    forms; Aristotle, in his Poetics,
    recuperated the idea, alleging that
    mimesis is “natural” to humans.
    
    For Aristotle, mimesis in part both
    recreates the objects of reality and
    improves them; it provides humans with a
    special kind of symbolic order.
    
    In the 17th and 18th centuries, thinkers
    and writers such as Rousseau and Lessing
    began to emphasize the relationship
    between mimesis and inner experiences and
    emotions, not just objective reality or
    nature.

    By the 20th century, the term housed a
    number of theories, theorists, and schools
    of thought.
    
    Erich Auerbach’s highly influential book
    Mimesis: The Representation of Reality in
    Western Literature (1953) attempted to
    chart the history of culture through
    representational practices in literature.
    
    Thinkers such as Walter Benjamin and
    Theodore Adorno, on the other hand,
    described mimesis as fundamental to human
    experience, a practice that precedes
    language but is suppressed or distorted by
    society.
    
    Rather than mimesis as the process of
    reproducing copies of nature, reality, or
    experience, these theorists suggested that
    mimesis has to do with social practices
    and inter-subjective relationships.
    
    Jacques Derrida also claimed mimesis for
    deconstruction, focusing on texts as
    “doubled” objects, which can never refer
    to an original source.

Mock epic
    A poem that plays with the conventions of
    the epic to comment on a topic
    satirically.
    
    In “Mac Flecknoe,” John Dryden wittily
    flaunts his mastery of the epic genre to
    cut down a literary rival.
    
    Alexander Pope’s “The Rape of the Lock”
    recasts a petty high-society scandal as a
    mythological battle for the virtue of an
    innocent.

Modernism
    A broadly defined multinational cultural
    movement (or series of movements) that
    took hold in the late 19th century and
    reached its most radical peak on the eve
    of World War I.
    
    It grew out of the philosophical,
    scientific, political, and ideological
    shifts that followed the Industrial
    Revolution, up to World War I and its
    aftermath.
    
    For artists and writers, the Modernist
    project was a re-evaluation of the
    assumptions and aesthetic values of their
    predecessors.
    
    It evolved from the Romantic rejection of
    Enlightenment positivism and faith in
    reason.
    
    Modernist writers broke with Romantic
    pieties and clichés (such as the notion of
    the Sublime) and became self-consciously
    skeptical of language and its claims on
    coherence.
    
    In the early 20th century, novelists such
    as Henry James, Virginia Woolf, and Joseph
    Conrad experimented with shifts in time
    and narrative points of view.
    
    While living in Paris before the war,
    Gertrude Stein explored the possibilities
    of creating literary works that broke with
    conventional syntactical and referential
    practices.
    
    Ezra Poundvowed to “make it new” and
    “break the pentameter,” while T.S.
    
    Eliot wrote The Waste Land in the shadow
    of World War I.
    
    Shortly after The Waste Land was published
    in 1922, it became the archetypical
    Modernist text, rife with allusions,
    linguistic fragments, and mixed registers
    and languages.
    
    Other poets most often associated with
    Modernism include H.D., W.H. Auden, Hart
    Crane, William Butler Yeats, and Wallace
    Stevens.
    
    Modernism also generated many smaller
    movements; see also Acmeism, Dada, Free
    verse, Futurism, Imagism, Objectivism,
    Postmodernism, and Surrealism.
    
    Browse more Modern poets.

Motif
    A central or recurring image or action in
    a literary work that is shared by other
    works.
    
    Unlike themes, which are messages,
    statements, or ideas, motifs are details
    whose repetition adds to the work’s larger
    meaning; multiple and varying motifs can
    take place within one work and across
    longer collections.
    
    For example, Jonathan Swift’s Gulliver’s
    Travels and John Bunyan’s A Pilgrim’s
    Progress both feature the motif of a long
    journey.
    
    The repeated questions of an ubi sunt poem
    also compose a motif on the fleeting
    nature of life.
    
    Motifs are sometimes described as
    expressions of a collective
    unconsciousness; see archetype.

Negative capability
    A theory first articulated by John Keats
    about the artist’s access to truth without
    the pressure and framework of logic or
    science.
    
    Contemplating his own craft and the art of
    others, especially William Shakespeare, in
    one of his famous letters to relatives
    Keats supposed that a great thinker is
    “capable of being in uncertainties,
    Mysteries, doubts, without any irritable
    reaching after fact and reason.” A poet,
    then, has the power to bury self-
    consciousness, dwell in a state of
    openness to all experience, and identify
    with the object contemplated.
    
    See Keats’s “To Autumn.” The inspirational
    power of beauty, according to Keats, is
    more important than the quest for
    objective fact; as he writes in his “Ode
    on a Grecian Urn,” “‘Beauty is truth,
    truth beauty’—that is all / Ye know on
    earth, and all ye need to know.” Keats’s
    notion of negative capability has been
    influential for those working outside of
    aesthetics, including scholars such as
    Roberto Unger who adopted and modified the
    term for his own work on social theory.

Négritude
    A term coined in the 1930s by Afro-
    Martiniquan French poet and politician
    Aimé Fernand Césaire, Senegalese poet and
    politician Léopold Senghor, and Léon Damas
    of French Guiana.
    
    The movement was a reaction against the
    European colonization of Africa and its
    legacy of cultural racism.
    
    Like the Harlem Renaissance writers, poets
    of the Négritude movement, also including
    David Diop and Léonard Sainville, sought
    to examine and uphold the unique aspects
    of their African cultural roots; by
    reclaiming the term “négritude,” they
    meant to foster politically revolutionary
    associations.
    
    Langston Hughes was an early influence on
    Césaire and his peers as he and Richard
    Wright were addressing “noireism” in their
    own work in the United States.
    
    Other influences include the Haitian
    anthropologists Antenon Firmin and
    Melville Herskovits, and Martiniquan
    Surrealists Pierre Yoyotte and J.M.
    
    Monnerot.
    
    Writers involved in the movement typically
    utilized a style to rebel against Europe’s
    colonial drive.

Neologism
    A newly coined word.
    
    Lewis Carroll’s “Jabberwocky” is filled
    with them, including “slithy” and
    “gimble.”

New American Poets
    The group of poets included in Donald
    Allen’s influential 1960 anthology of the
    same name.
    
    Allen’s anthology, which collected 15
    years of American writing, divided its
    contributors into groups: the New York
    School (John Ashbery, Barbara Guest, Frank
    O’Hara), the Black Mountain School
    (Charles Olson, Robert Creeley, Denise
    Levertov), the San Francisco Renaissance
    (Robert Duncan, Robin Blaser, Jack
    Spicer), and the Beats (Allen Ginsberg,
    Gary Snyder, Gregory Corso).
    
    Allen alleged that he was collecting the
    “third generation” of writers in the
    Modernist tradition, and his book is
    notable for presenting so many poets now
    recognized as leading figures of 20th-
    century poetry.
    
    The anthology’s impact was immediate, and
    it continues to be recognized as both a
    cultural document and a collection of the
    finest avant-garde writing of the period.

New Criticism
    Name given to a style of criticism
    advocated by a group of academics writing
    in the first half of the 20th century.
    
    New Criticism, like Formalism, tended to
    consider texts as autonomous and “closed,”
    meaning that everything that is needed to
    understand a work is present within it.
    
    The reader does not need outside sources,
    such as the author’s biography, to fully
    understand a text; while New Critics did
    not completely discount the relevance of
    the author, background, or possible
    sources of the work, they did insist that
    those types of knowledge had very little
    bearing on the work’s merit as literature.
    
    Like Formalist critics, New Critics
    focused their attention on the variety and
    degree of certain literary devices,
    specifically metaphor, irony, tension, and
    paradox.
    
    The New Critics emphasized “close reading”
    as a way to engage with a text, and paid
    close attention to the interactions
    between form and meaning.
    
    Important New Critics included Allen Tate,
    Robert Penn Warren, John Crowe Ransom,
    Cleanth Brooks, William Empson, and F.R.
    Leavis. William K. Wimsatt and Monroe
    Beardsley coined the term “intentional
    fallacy”; other terms associated with New
    Criticism include “affective fallacy,”
    “heresy of paraphrase,” and “ambiguity.”

New Formalism
    A late 20th- and early 21st-century
    movement that championed a return to rhyme
    and meter in poetry.
    
    New Formalist poets such as Dana Gioia,
    X.J. Kennedy, Brad Leithauser, and Marilyn
    Hacker responded to the popularity of the
    dominant free-verse poetry of the 1960s
    and ’70s by exploring the possibilities of
    prosody and form in their own work.
    
    Though not an orchestrated, coherent
    movement, New Formalism has been attacked
    by critics for its perceived retrogressive
    favoring of traditional metrical artifice
    over more recent, experimental modes of
    free verse.

New Historicism
    A critical approach developed in the 1980s
    through the works of Michel Foucault and
    Stephen Greenblatt, similar to Marxism.
    
    Moving away from text-centered schools of
    criticism such as New Criticism, New
    Historicism reopened the interpretation of
    literature to the social, political, and
    historical milieu that produced it.
    
    To a New Historicist, literature is not
    the record of a single mind, but the end
    product of a particular cultural moment.
    
    New Historicists look at literature
    alongside other cultural products of a
    particular historical period to illustrate
    how concepts, attitudes, and ideologies
    operated across a broader cultural
    spectrum that is not exclusively literary.
    
    In addition to analyzing the impact of
    historical context and ideology, New
    Historicists also acknowledge that their
    own criticism contains biases that derive
    from their historical position and
    ideology.
    
    Because it is impossible to escape one’s
    own “historicity,” the meaning of a text
    is fluid, not fixed.
    
    New Historicists attempt to situate
    artistic texts both as products of a
    historical context and as the means to
    understand cultural and intellectual
    history.

New York School
    A group of poets aligned with the New York
    School of painting in the 1950s and ’60s.
    
    A diverse group of writers, the main
    figures of the New York School are Frank
    O’Hara, John Ashbery, James Schulyer,
    Kenneth Koch, and Barbara Guest.
    
    Influenced by relationships and
    collaborations with painters such as
    Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, Jasper
    Johns, and Larry Rivers, the New York
    School poets are known for their urbane
    wit, interest in visual art, and casual
    address.
    
    A second generation of New York School
    poets grew up in the 1960s and included
    Ted Berrigan, Alice Notley, Ron Padgett,
    and Anne Waldman.
    
    Browse more New York School poets.

Objective correlative
    T.S.  Eliot used this phrase to describe “a set
    of objects, a situation, a chain of events
    which shall be the formula of that
    particular emotion” that the poet feels
    and hopes to evoke in the reader
    (“Hamlet,” 1919).
    
    There must be a positive connection
    between the emotion the poet is trying to
    express and the object, image, or
    situation in the poem that helps to convey
    that emotion to the reader.
    
    Eliot thus determined that Shakespeare’s
    play Hamlet was an “artistic failure”
    because Hamlet’s intense emotions
    overwhelmed the author’s attempts to
    express them through an objective
    correlative.
    
    In other words, Eliot felt that
    Shakespeare was unable to provoke the
    audience to feel as Prince Hamlet did
    through images, actions, and characters,
    and instead only inadequately described
    his emotional state through the play’s
    dialogue.
    
    Eliot’s theory of the objective
    correlative is closely related to the
    Imagist movement.

Objectivism
    A term coined by William Carlos Williams
    in 1930 that developed from his reading of
    Alfred North Whitehead’s Science and the
    Modern World.
    
    He described it as looking at a poem “with
    a special eye to its structural aspects,
    how it has been constructed.…” Louis
    Zukofsky expanded the term and attempted
    to articulate its principles when he
    guest-edited the February 1931 issue of
    Poetry.
    
    He included Charles Reznikoff, George
    Oppen, and Carl Rakosi.
    
    Later, the poet Lorine Niedecker was
    closely associated with this movement.
    
    These “objectivist” poets, Zukofsky noted,
    were Imagists rather than Symbolists; they
    were concerned with creating a poetic
    structure that could be perceived as a
    whole, rather than a series of imprecise
    but evocative images.
    
    For more on objectivism, read Peter
    O’Leary’s feature, “The Energies of
    Words”.
    
Objectivist Poets
    A loosely affiliated group of American
    poets writing in the 1930s and ’40s.
    
    Harriet Monroe famously solicited an
    edition of Objectivist work for Poetry,
    guest-edited by Louis Zukofsky, which
    featured work by many of the poets later
    associated with the movement.
    
    The Objectivist poets, as described by
    Zukofsky, were influenced by the writing
    of Ezra Pound and took many cues from the
    earlier Imagists: both groups wrote poetry
    that featured highly concentrated language
    and imagery and terse vers libre.
    
    The Objectivists, however, focused on
    everyday life and language, treating the
    poem as an object itself and emphasizing
    sincerity and the poet’s clear vision of
    the world.
    
    Core Objectivist poets include Zukofsky,
    George Oppen, Carl Rakosi, Lorine
    Niedecker, Charles Reznikoff, and the
    British poet Basil Bunting.
    
Occasional poem
    A poem written to describe or comment on a
    particular event and often written for a
    public reading.
    
    Alfred, Lord Tennyson’s “The Charge of the
    Light Brigade” commemorates a disastrous
    battle in the Crimean War.
    
    George Starbuck wrote “Of Late” after
    reading a newspaper account of a Vietnam
    War protester’s suicide.
    
    Elizabeth Alexander’s “Praise Song for the
    Day” was written for the inauguration of
    President Barack Obama.
    
    See also elegy, epithalamion, and ode.

Octave
    An eight-line stanza or poem.
    
    See ottava rima and triolet.
    
    The first eight lines of an Italian or
    Petrarchan sonnet are also called an
    octave.

Ode
    A formal, often ceremonious lyric poem
    that addresses and often celebrates a
    person, place, thing, or idea.
    
    Its stanza forms vary.
    
    The Greek or Pindaric (Pindar, ca.
    552–442 B.C.E.) ode was a public poem,
    usually set to music, that celebrated
    athletic victories.
    
    (See Stephen Burt’s article “And the
    Winner Is .  .  .
    Pindar!”) English odes written in the
    Pindaric tradition include Thomas Gray’s
    “The Progress of Poesy: A Pindaric Ode”
    and William Wordsworth’s “Ode: Intimations
    of Immortality from Reflections of Early
    Childhood.” Horatian odes, after the Latin
    poet Horace (65–8 B.C.E.), were written in
    quatrains in a more philosophical,
    contemplative manner; see Andrew Marvell’s
    “Horatian Ode upon Cromwell’s Return from
    Ireland.” The Sapphic ode consists of
    quatrains, three 11-syllable lines, and a
    final five-syllable line, unrhyming but
    with a strict meter.
    
    See Algernon Charles Swinburne’s
    “Sapphics.”

    The odes of the English Romantic poets
    vary in stanza form.
    
    They often address an intense emotion at
    the onset of a personal crisis (see Samuel
    Taylor Coleridge’s “Dejection: An Ode,”)
    or celebrate an object or image that leads
    to revelation (see John Keats’s “Ode on a
    Grecian Urn,” “Ode to a Nightingale,” and
    “To Autumn”).
    
    Browse more odes.

Onomatopoeia
    A figure of speech in which the sound of a
    word imitates its sense (for example,
    “choo-choo,” “hiss,” or “buzz”).
    
    In “Piano,” D.H.
    Lawrence describes the “boom of the
    tingling strings” as his mother played the
    piano, mimicking the volume and resonance
    of the sound (“boom”) as well as the fine,
    high-pitched vibration of the strings that
    produced it (“tingling strings”).

Ottava rima
    Originally an Italian stanza of eight
    11-syllable lines, with a rhyme scheme of
    ABABABCC.
    
    Sir Thomas Wyatt introduced the form in
    English, and Lord Byron adapted it to a
    10-syllable line for his mock-epic Don
    Juan.  W.B.
    Yeats used it for “Among School Children”
    and “Sailing to Byzantium.” Browse more
    ottava rima poems.

OuLiPo
    An acronym for Ouvroir de Littérature
    Potentielle (Workshop for Potential
    Literature), a group of writers and
    mathematicians formed in France in 1960 by
    poet Raymond Queneau and mathematician
    François Le Lionnais.
    
    Unlike the Dada and surrealist movements,
    OuLiPo rejects spontaneous chance and the
    subconscious as sources of literary
    creativity.
    
    Instead, the group emphasizes systematic,
    self-restricting means of making texts.
    
    For example, the technique known as n + 7
    replaces every noun in an existing text
    with the noun that follows seven entries
    after it in the dictionary.
    
    Notable members of this group include the
    novelists George Perec and Italo Calvino,
    poet Oskar Pastior, and poet/mathematician
    Jacques Roubaud.

Oxymoron
    A figure of speech that brings together
    contradictory words for effect, such as
    “jumbo shrimp” and “deafening silence.”
    For instance, John Milton describes Hell
    as “darkness visible” in Book I of
    Paradise Lost.

Palindrome
    A word, phrase, or sentence that reads the
    same backward and forward.
    
    The words “civic” and “level” are
    palindromes, as is the phrase “A man, a
    plan, a canal—Panama.” The reversal can be
    word by word as well, as in “fall leaves
    when leaves fall.”

Palinode
    An ode or song that retracts or recants
    what the poet wrote in a previous poem.
    
    For instance, Geoffrey Chaucer’s The
    Canterbury Tales ends with a retraction,
    in which he apologizes for the work’s
    “worldly vanitees” and sinful contents.

Panegyric
    A poem of effusive praise.
    
    Its origins are Greek, and it is closely
    related to the eulogy and the ode.
    
    See Ben Jonson’s “To the Memory of My
    Beloved the Author, Mr.
    
    William Shakespeare” or Anne Bradstreet’s
    “In Honor of That High and Mighty
    Princess, Queen Elizabeth.”

Pantoum
    A Malaysian verse form adapted by French
    poets and occasionally imitated in
    English.
    
    It comprises a series of quatrains, with
    the second and fourth lines of each
    quatrain repeated as the first and third
    lines of the next.
    
    The second and fourth lines of the final
    stanza repeat the first and third lines of
    the first stanza.
    
    See A.E.
    Stallings’s “Another Lullaby for
    Insomniacs.” Browse more pantoums.

Paradox
    As a figure of speech, it is a seemingly
    self-contradictory phrase or concept that
    illuminates a truth.
    
    For instance, Wallace Stevens, in “The
    Snow Man,” describes the “Nothing that is
    not there and the nothing that is.”
    Alexander Pope, in “An Essay on Man:
    Epistle II,” describes Man as “Great lord
    of all things, yet a prey to all.” Paradox
    is related to oxymoron, which creates a
    new phrase or concept out of a
    contradiction.

    The metaphysical poets often fixated on
    the paradoxical nature of the Christian
    God’s triune nature (Father, Son, Holy
    Ghost).
    
    In his “Holy Sonnet: Batter my heart,
    three-person’d God,” John Donne considers
    God’s power to restore the spirit to life
    by first dismantling it:

            Batter my heart, three-person’d God, for you
            As yet but knock, breathe, shine, and seek to mend;
            That I may rise and stand, o’erthrow me, and bend
            Your force to break, blow, burn, and make me new.

Parody
    A comic imitation of another author’s work
    or characteristic style.
    
    See Joan Murray’s “We Old Dudes,” a parody
    of Gwendolyn Brooks’s “We Real Cool.”

Pastiche
    A patchwork of lines or passages from
    another writer (or writers), intended as a
    kind of imitation.
    
    The term also refers to an original
    composition that deliberately mimics the
    style of another author, usually in a
    spirit of respect rather than mockery or
    satire.

Pastoral
    Verse in the tradition of Theocritus (3
    BCE), who wrote idealized accounts of
    shepherds and their loves living simple,
    virtuous lives in Arcadia, a mountainous
    region of Greece.
    
    Poets writing in English drew on the
    pastoral tradition by retreating from the
    trappings of modernity to the imagined
    virtues and romance of rural life, as in
    Edmund Spenser’s The Shepheardes Calendar,
    Christopher Marlowe’s “The Passionate
    Shepherd to His Love,” and Sir Walter
    Ralegh’s response, “The Nymph’s Reply to
    the Shepherd.” The pastoral poem faded
    after the European Industrial Revolution
    of the 18th century, but its themes
    persist in poems that romanticize rural
    life or reappraise the natural world; see
    Leonie Adams’s “Country Summer,” Dylan
    Thomas’s “Fern Hill,” or Allen Ginsberg’s
    “Wales Visitation.” Browse more pastoral
    poems.

Pathetic fallacy
    The assignment of human feelings to
    inanimate objects, as coined by the
    Victorian literary critic John Ruskin.
    
    For him, a poet’s tendency to project his
    or her emotions outward onto the workings
    of the natural world was a kind of false
    vision.
    
    Today the term is used more neutrally, and
    the phenomenon is usually accepted as an
    integral part of the poet’s craft.
    
    It is related to personification and
    anthropomorphism, but emphasizes the
    relationship between the poet’s emotional
    state and what he or she sees in the
    object or objects.
    
    For instance, in William Wordsworth’s “I
    Wandered Lonely as a Cloud,” the speaker
    sees a field of daffodils “tossing their
    heads in a sprightly dance,” outdoing the
    nearby lake’s sparkling waves with their
    “glee.” The speaker, in times of solitude
    and introspection, is heartened by
    memories of the flowers’ joy.

Pattern poetry
    See Concrete poetry.

Pentameter
    A line made up of five feet.
    
    It is the most common metrical line in
    English.
    
    Theodore Roethke’s “The Waking” is written
    in iambic pentameter.
    
    Hart Crane maintains pentameter lines made
    up of variable feet in “The Bridge: To
    Brooklyn Bridge.” See also blank verse and
    iamb.

Persona
    A dramatic character, distinguished from
    the poet, who is the speaker of a poem.
    
    The persona who describes the process of
    composing and playing music in Robert
    Browning’s “Abt Vogler” is a German
    organist by the same name.
    
    Similarly, three historical figures
    (Erasmus Darwin, James Whitfield, and
    Josiah Wedgewood) narrate Linda Bierds’s
    three-part poem “The Ghost Trio.” The
    identity of the speaker is not always so
    clear; John Berryman’s sequence of Dream
    Songs is narrated primarily by a persona
    named Henry, who refers to himself in the
    third person.

Personification
    A figure of speech in which the poet
    describes an abstraction, a thing, or a
    nonhuman form as if it were a person.
    
    William Blake’s “O Rose, thou art sick!”
    is one example; Donne’s “Death, be not
    proud” is another.
    
    Gregory Corso quarrels with a series of
    personified abstractions in his poem “The
    Whole Mess .  .  .
    Almost.” Personification is often used in
    symbolic or allegorical poetry; for
    instance, the virtue of Justice takes the
    form of the knight Artegal in Edmund
    Spenser’s The Faerie Queene.

Pindaric ode
    See Ode.

Poet laureate
    According to Virgil, the Greek god Apollo
    decreed that poets should receive laurels
    as a prize.
    
    The British crown created the post of poet
    laureate in 1688 and awarded it to poets
    for life.
    
    In the United States, the Library of
    Congress appoints the position, with the
    official title of Poet Laureate Consultant
    in Poetry to the Library of Congress.
    
    Recipients of the honor usually serve for
    one year and promote poetry to the public
    through readings, lectures, or educational
    projects.

Poet's Corner
    An area in the south transept of
    Westminster Abbey in London that holds
    both monuments and graves of famous poets,
    playwrights, and writers.
    
    Among the poets buried there are Geoffrey
    Chaucer, Edmund Spenser, Ben Jonson, John
    Dryden, Samuel Johnson, Robert Browning,
    Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Rudyard Kipling,
    and Thomas Hardy.

Poetaster
    A derogatory term for an inferior poet.
    
    See also Doggerel.

Poetic diction
    The vocabulary, phrasing, and grammatical
    usage deemed appropriate to verse as well
    as the deviations allowable for effect
    within it.
    
    Aristotle discussed the proper diction for
    writers in his Poetics, and English poets
    have long struggled with which kind of
    language to employ and when.
    
    Wordsworth argued against the ornate
    language of his predecessors in the
    preface to Lyrical Ballads.
    
    Poetic diction is distinguished from
    common speech by effects such as
    circumlocution, elision, personification
    and Latinate terminology such as “azure
    skies.”

Poetic license
    A poet’s departure from the rules of
    grammar, syntax, and vocabulary in order
    to maintain a metrical or rhyme scheme;
    can also mean the manipulation of facts to
    suit the needs of a poem.

Postcolonial theory
    A theoretical approach to analyzing the
    literature produced in countries that were
    once colonies, especially of European
    powers such as Britain, France, and Spain.
    
    Postcolonial theory also looks at the
    broader interactions between European
    nations and the societies they colonized
    by dealing with issues such as identity
    (including gender, race, and class),
    language, representation, and history.
    
    Because native languages and culture were
    replaced or superseded by European
    traditions in colonial societies, part of
    the postcolonialist project is
    reclamation.
    
    Acknowledging the effect of colonialism’s
    aftermath—its language, discourse, and
    cultural institutions—has led to an
    emphasis on hybridity, or the mingling of
    cultural signs and practices between
    colonizer and colonized.
    
    The Palestinian American cultural critic
    Edward Said was a major figure of
    postcolonial thought, and his book
    Orientalism is often credited as its
    founding text.
    
    Other important postcolonial critics
    include Homi K.
    
    Bhabha, Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, and
    Frantz Fanon.

Postmodernism
    Defined variously as a reaction to
    modernism or merely the movement that
    followed it, postmodernism remains a
    controversial concept.
    
    As a term, it tends to refer to an
    intellectual, artistic, or cultural
    outlook or practice that is suspicious of
    hierarchy and objective knowledge and
    embraces complexity, contradiction,
    ambiguity, and diversity.
    
    It includes other 20th-century theoretical
    movements such as poststructuralism and
    deconstruction, mainly through a common
    emphasis on discourse and the power of
    language in structuring thought and
    experience.
    
    Because it attacks traditional concepts of
    history, knowledge, and reality
    itself—arguing that “truth” is culturally
    and historically specific—postmodernism
    has often been accused of relativism.
    
    Many of the central postmodernist
    theorists are French and include Michel
    Foucault, Roland Barthes, Jacques Derrida,
    Jean Baudrillard, and Jean-François
    Lyotard.

Poststructuralism
    A school of thought that responded
    negatively to structuralism’s insistence
    on frameworks and structures as access
    points to “truth.” Poststructuralism, like
    deconstruction, emphasized the instability
    of meaning.
    
    While structuralism regarded language as a
    closed system, poststructuralism
    identified an inevitable gap between
    signifier and signified.
    
    In poststructuralism, the reader and not
    the writer became paramount: the author’s
    intended meaning, because it could never
    be truly known, was less important than
    the reader’s perceived meaning.
    
    Like other postmodern theories that
    interrogated cultural assumptions,
    poststructuralists believe in studying
    both the text and the systems of knowledge
    that produced that text.
    
    Poststructuralism is associated with many
    French writers and thinkers, namely Roland
    Barthes, Michel Foucault, and Jacques
    Derrida.

Poulter's measure
    Couplets in which a 12-syllable iambic
    line (see Alexandrine) rhymes with a
    14-syllable iambic line (see Fourteener).
    
    It was used frequently during the English
    Renaissance; see “Elegy for Philip Sidney”
    by Fulke Greville.
    
    Poulter's measure can also be broking at
    the caesura, resulting in quatrains of
    three, three, four, and three feet.
    
    This is a common feature of hymn and
    ballad meter as well.
    
    Limericks can be scanned as Poulter’s
    measure.
    
    See also common measure.

Pre-Raphaelites
    An artistic movement founded in 1848 by
    the poet and painter Dante Gabriel
    Rossetti and the painters John Everett
    Millais and William Holman Hunt, who is
    often credited with the group’s name,
    which indicates not a dismissal of the
    Italian painter Raphael, but rejection of
    strict aesthetic adherence to the
    principles of composition and light
    characteristic of his style.
    
    The Pre-Raphaelites’ commitment to
    sincerity, simplicity, and moral
    seriousness is evident in the
    contemplative but uncomplicated subjects
    of its poetry (as in Dante Gabriel
    Rossetti’s “The Woodspurge”) and in the
    religious, mythical, and literary subjects
    depicted in its paintings.
    
    Christina Rossetti was both a close
    associate and critic of the group; her
    poem “Dream Land” was published in the
    Brotherhood’s periodical The Germ, which
    ran a total of four issues in 1850.
    
    Her poem “In the Artist’s Studio” offers a
    critique of the Pre-Raphaelites’ treatment
    of their female subjects, describing a
    painter who renders a woman “not as she
    is, but as she fills his dream.” Algernon
    Charles Swinburne and George Meredith were
    among the various authors associated with
    the group’s members.
    
    While a relatively short-lived movement,
    the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood had a
    profoundly influential effect on the
    course of Victorian literature and art.

Prose poem
    A prose composition that, while not broken
    into verse lines, demonstrates other
    traits such as symbols, metaphors, and
    other figures of speech common to poetry.
    
    See Amy Lowell’s “Bath,” “Metals Metals”
    by Russell Edson, “Information” by David
    Ignatow, and Harryette Mullen’s “[Kills
    bugs dead.]” Browse more prose poems.

Prosody
    The principles of metrical structure in
    poetry.
    
    Poetry founder Harriet Monroe discusses
    prosody as part of the natural rhythms of
    the universe imitated by art and "dead
    poets" from which "grammarians began to
    make rules for poets yet to come." See
    meter.

Psychoanalytic theory
    A critical approach influenced by Sigmund
    Freud’s work on the unconscious and human
    behavior.
    
    Freud believed that the existence of three
    competing impulses in the psyche—the ego,
    id, and superego—and the conflict inherent
    in child-parent relations structured human
    responses to the world.
    
    Initially, psychoanalytic literary theory
    consisted of applying psychoanalysis to
    either the author or the main character of
    a work, seeking unconscious or latent
    meaning underneath the manifest language
    and analyzing the symbols contained in a
    given work.
    
    Freud himself wrote many essays in this
    vein, applying his theories to characters
    such as Shakespeare’s Hamlet and Ibsen’s
    Rebecca West.
    
    Influenced by Jacques Lacan, later
    psychoanalytic theory focused on the
    unconscious and language and shared some
    concerns with deconstruction and
    poststructuralist theory.
    
    Psychoanalytic theory has been enormously
    influential on a number of other theories,
    such as reader-response and feminist
    theory, as well as on individual thinkers.
    
    For example, critic Harold Bloom’s theory
    of the struggle between “strong” and
    “weak” poets owes much to Freud’s Oedipus
    complex.

Pun
    Wordplay that uses homonyms (two different
    words that are spelled identically) to
    deliver two or more meanings at the same
    time.
    
    Harryette Mullen riffs on the multiple
    meanings of “slip” in [Of a girl, in
    white].
    
    “Ah, nothing more obscure than Browning /
    Save blacking,” writes Ambrose Bierce in
    “With a Book,” making a pun on the name of
    poet Robert Browning and the color brown.

Pyrrhic meter
    A metrical unit consisting of two
    unstressed syllables, in accentual-
    syllabic verse, or two short syllables, in
    quantitative meter.
    
    Though regularly found in classical Greek
    poetry, pyrrhic meter is not generally
    used in modern systems of prosody:
    unaccented syllables are instead grouped
    with surrounding feet.
    
    Andrew Marvell’s “The Garden” contains
    examples of pyrrhic meter, here in bold:
    “To a green thought in a green shade.”

Quantitative meter
    The dominant metrical system in Classical
    Greek and Italian poetry, in which the
    rhythm depends not on the number of
    stresses, but on the length of time it
    takes to utter a line.
    
    That duration depends on whether a
    syllable is long or short—a distinction
    that is harder to hear in English
    pronunciation.
    
    Edmund Spenser attempted to adapt
    quantitative meter to English in his poem
    “Iambicum Trimetrum.”

Quatrain
    A four-line stanza, often with various
    rhyme schemes, including:

        -ABAC or ABCB (known as unbounded or ballad quatrain), as in Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner” or “Sadie and Maud” by Gwendolyn Brooks.
        -AABB (a double couplet); see A.E. Housman’s “To an Athlete Dying Young.” 
        -ABAB (known as interlaced, alternate, or heroic), as in Thomas Gray’s “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard”
        -ABBA (known as envelope or enclosed), as in Alfred, Lord Tennyson’s “In Memoriam” or John Ciardi’s “Most Like an Arch This Marriage.”
        -AABA, the stanza of Robert Frost’s “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.”

Reader-response theory
    A theory, which gained prominence in the
    late 1960s, that focuses on the reader or
    audience reaction to a particular text,
    perhaps more than the text itself.
    
    Reader-response criticism can be connected
    to poststructuralism’s emphasis on the
    role of the reader in actively
    constructing texts rather than passively
    consuming them.
    
    Unlike text-based approaches such as New
    Criticism, which are grounded upon some
    objective meaning already present in the
    work being examined, reader-response
    criticism argues that a text has no
    meaning before a reader
    experiences—reads—it.
    
    The reader-response critic’s job is to
    examine the scope and variety of reader
    reactions and analyze the ways in which
    different readers, sometimes called
    “interpretive communities,” make meaning
    out of both purely personal reactions and
    inherited or culturally conditioned ways
    of reading.
    
    The theory is popular in both the United
    States and Germany; its main theorists
    include Stanley Fish, David Bleich, and
    Wolfgang Iser.

Refrain
    A phrase or line repeated at intervals
    within a poem, especially at the end of a
    stanza.
    
    See the refrain “jump back, honey, jump
    back” in Paul Lawrence Dunbar’s “A Negro
    Love Song” or “return and return again” in
    James Laughlin’s “O Best of All Nights,
    Return and Return Again.” Browse poems
    with a refrain.

Renga
    A Japanese form composed of a series of
    half-tanka written by different poets.
    
    The opening stanza is the basis of the
    modern haiku form.

Rhyme
    The repetition of syllables, typically at
    the end of a verse line.
    
    Rhymed words conventionally share all
    sounds following the word’s last stressed
    syllable.
    
    Thus “tenacity” and “mendacity” rhyme, but
    not “jaundice” and “John does,” or
    “tomboy” and “calm bay.” A rhyme scheme is
    usually the pattern of end rhymes in a
    stanza, with each rhyme encoded by a
    letter of the alphabet, from a onward
    (ABBA BCCB, for example).
    
    Rhymes are classified by the degree of
    similarity between sounds within words,
    and by their placement within the lines or
    stanzas.

    Eye rhyme
        rhymes only when spelled, not when
        pronounced. For example, “through” and
        “rough.”

    End rhyme
        The most common type, is the rhyming
        of the final syllables of a line.

        See “Midstairs” by Virginia Hamilton
        Adair:
     
            And here on this turning of the stair
            Between passion and doubt,
            I pause and say a double prayer,
            One for you, and one for you;
            And so they cancel out.

    Feminine rhyme
        Applies to the rhyming of one or more
        unstressed syllables, such as “dicing”
        and “enticing.” Ambrose Bierce’s “The
        Day of Wrath” employs feminine rhyme
        almost exclusively. Half rhyme is the
        rhyming of the ending consonant sounds
        in a word (such as “tell” with “toll,”
        or “sopped” with “leapt”). This is
        also termed “off-rhyme,” “slant
        rhyme,” or apophany. See consonance.

    Identical rhyme
        Employs the same word, identically in
        sound and in sense, twice in rhyming
        positions.

    Internal rhyme
        Rhyme within a single line of verse,
        when a word from the middle of a line
        is rhymed with a word at the end of
        the line.

    Masculine rhyme
        Describes those rhymes ending in a
        stressed syllable, such as “hells” and
        “bells.” It is the most common type of
        rhyme in English poetry.

    Monorhyme
        The use of only one rhyme in a stanza.
        See William Blake’s “Silent, Silent
        Night.” 

    Pararhyme
        Poet Edmund Blunden’s term for double
        consonance, where different vowels
        appear within identical consonant
        pairs. For example, see Wilfred Owen’s
        “Strange Meeting”: “Through granites
        which Titanic wars had groined. / Yet
        also there encumbered sleepers
        groaned.”

    See also alliteration, assonance, and
    onomatopoeia.

Rhyme royal (rime royale)
    A stanza of seven 10-syllable lines,
    rhyming ABABBCC, popularized by Geoffrey
    Chaucer and termed “royal” because his
    imitator, James I of Scotland, employed it
    in his own verse.
    
    In addition to Chaucer’s Troilus and
    Criseyde, see Sir Thomas Wyatt’s “They
    flee from me” and William Wordsworth’s
    “Resolution and Independence.”

Rhythm
    An audible pattern in verse established by
    the intervals between stressed syllables.
    
    “Rhythm creates a pattern of yearning and
    expectation, of recurrence and
    difference,” observes Edward Hirsch in his
    essay on rhythm, “Out of the Cradle
    Endlessly Rocking.” See also meter.

Romance
    French in origin, a genre of long
    narrative poetry about medieval courtly
    culture and secret love.
    
    It triumphed in English with tales of
    chivalry such as Sir Gawain and the Green
    Knight and Geoffrey Chaucer’s “The
    Knight’s Tale” and Troilus and Criseyde.

Romanticism
    A poetic movement of the late 18th and
    early 19th centuries that turned toward
    nature and the interior world of feeling,
    in opposition to the mannered formalism
    and disciplined scientific inquiry of the
    Enlightenment era that preceded it.
    
    English poets such as William Wordsworth,
    Samuel Taylor Coleridge, John Keats, Percy
    Bysshe Shelley, William Blake, and Lord
    Byron produced work that expressed
    spontaneous feelings, found parallels to
    their own emotional lives in the natural
    world, and celebrated creativity rather
    than logic.
    
    Browse more Romantic poets.

Rondeau
    Originating in France, a mainly
    octosyllabic poem consisting of between 10
    and 15 lines and three stanzas.
    
    It has only two rhymes, with the opening
    words used twice as an unrhyming refrain
    at the end of the second and third
    stanzas.
    
    The 10-line version rhymes ABBAABc ABBAc
    (where the lower-case “c” stands for the
    refrain).
    
    The 15-line version often rhymes AABBA
    AABc AABAc.
    
    Geoffrey Chaucer’s “Now welcome, summer”
    at the close of The Parlement of Fowls is
    an example of a 13-line rondeau.

    A rondeau redoublé consists of six
    quatrains using two rhymes.
    
    The first quatrain consists of four
    refrain lines that are used, in sequence,
    as the last lines of the next four
    quatrains, and a phrase from the first
    refrain is repeated as a tail at the end
    of the final stanza.
    
    See Dorothy Parker’s “Roudeau Redoublé
    (and Scarcely Worth the Trouble at That).”

Rondel (roundel)
    A poetic form of 11 to 14 lines consisting
    of two rhymes and the repetition of the
    first two lines in the middle of the poem
    and at its end.
    
    Algernon Charles Swinburne’s “The Roundel”
    is 11 lines in two stanzas.

San Francisco Renaissance
    Not a single movement, but a constellation
    of writers and artists active in the San
    Francisco Bay Area at the end of World War
    II.
    
    Poets associated with the San Francisco
    Renaissance include Kenneth Rexroth,
    Robert Duncan, Robin Blaser, Jack Spicer,
    and Michael McClure.
    
    Though the poets wrote in different styles
    and often espoused different aesthetic and
    political views, all favored the Modernist
    tradition of innovation, and many were
    influenced by Charles Olson and the Black
    Mountain School.
    
    Donald Allen’s influential anthology The
    New American Poets included a section
    devoted to the “San Francisco
    Renaissance,” and many claim that by
    labeling the group, Allen in some way
    invented it.
    
    However, the poets writing in San
    Francisco at that time were active and
    influential across many genres, and often
    read and collaborated with one another.

Sapphic verse
    See ode.

Scansion
    The analysis of the metrical patterns of a
    poem by organizing its lines into feet of
    stressed and unstressed syllables and
    showing the major pauses, if any.
    
    Scansion also involves the classification
    of a poem’s stanza, structure, and rhyme
    scheme.

Sestet
    A six-line stanza, or the final six lines
    of a 14-line Italian or Petrarchan sonnet.
    
    A sestet refers only to the final portion
    of a sonnet, otherwise the six-line stanza
    is known as a sexain.
    
    The second stanza of Emily Dickinson’s
    “The Soul has Bandaged Moments” is a
    sexain.
    
    “Sestina: Like,” by A.E.
    
    Stallings possesses several sexains.
    
    See also Sestina.

Sestina
    A complex French verse form, usually
    unrhymed, consisting of six stanzas of six
    lines each and a three-line envoy.
    
    The end words of the first stanza are
    repeated in a different order as end words
    in each of the subsequent five stanzas;
    the closing envoy contains all six words,
    two per line, placed in the middle and at
    the end of the three lines.
    
    The patterns of word repetition are as
    follows, with each number representing the
    final word of a line, and each row of
    numbers representing a stanza:

          1 2 3 4 5 6
          6 1 5 2 4 3
          3 6 4 1 2 5
          5 3 2 6 1 4
          4 5 1 3 6 2
          2 4 6 5 3 1
          (6 2) (1 4) (5 3)

    See Algernon Charles Swinburne’s “The
    Complaint of Lisa,” John Ashbery’s “Farm
    Implements and Rutabagas in a Landscape,”
    and David Ferry’s “The Guest Ellen at the
    Supper for Street People.” Browse more
    sestinas.

Shakespearean sonnet
    The variation of the sonnet form that
    Shakespeare used—comprised of three
    quatrains and a concluding couplet,
    rhyming abab cdcd efef gg—is called the
    English or Shakespearean sonnet form,
    although others had used it before him.
    
    This different sonnet structure allows for
    more space to be devoted to the buildup of
    a subject or problem than the
    Italian/Petrarchan form, and is followed
    by just two lines to conclude or resolve
    the poem in a rhyming couplet.
    
    Learn more about sonnet forms here.

Sijo
    A Korean verse form related to haiku and
    tanka and comprised of three lines of
    14-16 syllables each, for a total of 44-46
    syllables.
    
    Each line contains a pause near the
    middle, similar to a caesura, though the
    break need not be metrical.
    
    The first half of the line contains six to
    nine syllables; the second half should
    contain no fewer than five.
    
    Originally intended as songs, sijo can
    treat romantic, metaphysical, or spiritual
    themes.
    
    Whatever the subject, the first line
    introduces an idea or story, the second
    supplies a “turn,” and the third provides
    closure.
    
    Modern sijo are sometimes printed in six
    lines.

Simile
    A comparison (see Metaphor) made with
    “as,” “like,” or “than.” In “A Red, Red
    Rose,” Robert Burns declares:

        O my Luve is like a red, red rose
        That’s newly sprung in June;
        O my Luve is like the melody
        That’s sweetly played in tune.

    “What happens to a dream deferred?” asks
    Langston Hughes in “Harlem”:

        Does it dry up
        like a raisin in the sun?
        Or fester like a sore—
        And then run?
        Does it stink like rotten meat?
        Or crust and sugar over—
        like a syrupy sweet?

Slam
    A competitive poetry performance in which
    selected audience members score
    performers, and winners are determined by
    total points.
    
    Slam is a composite genre that combines
    elements of poetry, theater, performance,
    and storytelling.
    
    The genre’s origins can be traced to
    Chicago in the early 1980s.
    
    Since then, groups of volunteers have
    organized slams in venues across the
    world.
    
    The first National Poetry Slam was held in
    1990, and has become an annual event in
    which teams from cities across the United
    States compete at events in a host city.
    
    For more on poetry slams, see Jeremy
    Richards’s series “Performing the
    Academy”.
    
    See also poets Tyehimba Jess, Bob Holman,
    and Patricia Smith.

Soliloquy
    A soliloquy is a monologue in which a
    character in a play expresses thoughts and
    feelings while being alone on stage.
    
    Soliloquies allow dramatists to
    communicate information about a
    character’s state of mind, hopes, and
    intentions directly to an audience.
    
    Soliloquies became a dramatic convention
    in the 1590s and 1600s, when playwrights
    used the technique to allow characters to
    reveal important plot points.
    
    The opening speech in Christopher
    Marlowe’s Doctor Faustus is an early
    example, but the most famous soliloquies
    in English come from Shakespeare’s plays
    Hamlet, Macbeth, and Othello.

Sonnet
    A 14-line poem with a variable rhyme
    scheme originating in Italy and brought to
    England by Sir Thomas Wyatt and Henry
    Howard, earl of Surrey in the 16th
    century.
    
    Literally a “little song,” the sonnet
    traditionally reflects upon a single
    sentiment, with a clarification or “turn”
    of thought in its concluding lines.
    
    There are many different types of sonnets.

    The Petrarchan sonnet, perfected by the
    Italian poet Petrarch, divides the 14
    lines into two sections: an eight-line
    stanza (octave) rhyming ABBAABBA, and a
    six-line stanza (sestet) rhyming CDCDCD or
    CDECDE.
    
    John Milton’s “When I Consider How my
    Light Is Spent” and Elizabeth Barrett
    Browning’s “How Do I Love Thee” employ
    this form.
    
    The Italian sonnet is an English variation
    on the traditional Petrarchan version.
    
    The octave’s rhyme scheme is preserved,
    but the sestet rhymes CDDCEE.
    
    See Thomas Wyatt’s “Whoso List to Hunt, I
    Know Where Is an Hind” and John Donne’s
    “If Poisonous Minerals, and If That Tree.”
    Wyatt and Surrey developed the English (or
    Shakespearean) sonnet, which condenses the
    14 lines into one stanza of three
    quatrains and a concluding couplet, with a
    rhyme scheme of ABABCDCDEFEFGG (though
    poets have frequently varied this scheme;
    see Wilfred Owen’s “Anthem for Doomed
    Youth”).
    
    George Herbert’s “Love (II),” Claude
    McKay’s “America,” and Molly Peacock’s
    “Altruism” are English sonnets.

    These three types have given rise to many
    variations, including:

    The caudate sonnet
        Adds codas or tails to the 14-line
        poem.
        
        See Gerard Manley Hopkins’s “That
        Nature Is a Heraclitean Fire.”

    The curtal sonnet
        A shortened version devised by Gerard
        Manley Hopkins that maintains the
        proportions of the Italian form,
        substituting two six-stress tercets
        for two quatrains in the octave
        (rhyming ABC ABC), and four and a half
        lines for the sestet (rhyming DEBDE),
        also six-stress except for the final
        three-stress line.
        
        See his poem “Pied Beauty.”

    The sonnet redoublé
        Also known as a crown of sonnets, is
        composed of 15 sonnets that are linked
        by the repetition of the final line of
        one sonnet as the initial line of the
        next, and the final line of that
        sonnet as the initial line of the
        previous; the last sonnet consists of
        all the repeated lines of the previous
        14 sonnets, in the same order in which
        they appeared.
        
        Marilyn Nelson’s A Wreath for Emmett
        Till is a contemporary example.

    A sonnet sequence
        A group of sonnets sharing the same
        subject matter and sometimes a
        dramatic situation and persona.
        
        See George Meredith’s Modern Love
        sequence, Sir Philip Sidney’s
        Astrophel and Stella, Rupert Brooke’s
        1914 sequence, and Elizabeth Barrett
        Browning’s Sonnets from the
        Portuguese.

    The Spenserian sonnet
        A 14-line poem developed by Edmund
        Spenser in his Amoretti, that varies
        the English form by interlocking the
        three quatrains (ABAB BCBC CDCD EE).

    The stretched sonnet
        Extended to 16 or more lines, such as
        those in George Meredith’s sequence
        Modern Love.

    A submerged sonnet
        Tucked into a longer poetic work; see
        lines 235-48 of T.S.
        
        Eliot’s “The Waste Land.”

    You can also read the educational essays
    “Learning the Sonnet” and “The Sonnet as a
    Silver Marrow Spoon.”

Spenserian stanza
    The unit of Edmund Spenser’s long poem The
    Faerie Queene, consisting of eight iambic-
    pentameter lines and a final alexandrine,
    with a rhyme scheme of ABABBCBCC.
    
    Later uses of this stanza form include
    John Keats’s “The Eve of St.
    
    Agnes,” Percy Bysshe Shelley’s “Adonais,”
    and Alfred Lord Tennyson’s “The Lotos-
    Eaters.”

Spoken word
    A broad designation for poetry intended
    for performance.
    
    Though some spoken word poetry may also be
    published on the page, the genre has its
    roots in oral traditions and performance.
    
    Spoken word can encompass or contain
    elements of rap, hip-hop, storytelling,
    theater, and jazz, rock, blues, and folk
    music.
    
    Characterized by rhyme, repetition,
    improvisation, and word play, spoken word
    poems frequently refer to issues of social
    justice, politics, race, and community.
    
    Related to slam poetry, spoken word may
    draw on music, sound, dance, or other
    kinds of performance to connect with
    audiences.
    
    See Murdoch Burnett, Kevin Coval, and
    Cristin O’Keefe Aptowicz for examples of
    spoken word performers.
    
    For spoken word’s connection with music,
    see David Browne’s essay “Pop Star
    Poetics.”

Spondee
    A metrical foot consisting of two accented
    syllables.
    
    An example of a spondaic word is “hog-
    wild.” Gerard Manley Hopkins’s “Pied
    Beauty” is heavily spondaic:

        With swift, slow; sweet, sour; adazzle, dim;
        He fathers-forth whose beauty is past change:
        Praise him.

Sprung rhythm
    A metrical system devised by Gerard Manley
    Hopkins composed of one- to four-syllable
    feet that start with a stressed syllable.
    
    The spondee replaces the iamb as a
    dominant measure, and the number of
    unstressed syllables varies considerably
    from line to line (see also accentual
    verse).
    
    According to Hopkins, its intended effect
    was to reflect the dynamic quality and
    variations of common speech, in contrast
    to the monotony of iambic pentameter.
    
    His own poetry illustrates its use; though
    there have been few imitators, the spirit
    and principles of sprung rhythm influenced
    the rise of free verse in the early 20th
    century.

Stanza
    A grouping of lines separated from others
    in a poem.
    
    In modern free verse, the stanza, like a
    prose paragraph, can be used to mark a
    shift in mood, time, or thought.

Stress
    A syllable uttered in a higher pitch—or
    with greater emphasis—than others.
    
    The English language itself determines how
    English words are stressed, but sentence
    structure, semantics, and meter influence
    the placement and perception of stress.
    
    See also accentual verse, accentual-
    syllabic verse, foot, meter, rhythm, and
    scansion.

Strophe
    In Greek drama, the strophe (turning)
    signified the first section of a choral
    ode, and was recited by the Chorus as it
    moved across the stage.
    
    The Chorus’s movement back to its original
    side was accompanied by the antistrophe.
    
    Finally, the Chorus stood still to chant
    the epode, the final section of the ode,
    which used a new metrical structure.
    
    This classic structure is explicitly
    foregrounded in Ben Jonson’s “A Pindaric
    Ode.” Strophe came to be synonymous with
    the stanzas in an ode; see Coleridge’s
    “France: An Ode.” It has also been used to
    describe units or verse paragraphs in free
    verse.
    
    See Robert Duncan’s, “A Poem Beginning
    with a Line by Pindar” and Geoffrey Hill’s
    “On Reading Crowds and Power” for examples
    of this contemporary usage.

Structuralism
    A movement of thought in the humanities,
    widespread in anthropology, linguistics,
    and literary theory, and influential in
    the 1950s and ’60s.
    
    Based primarily on the linguistic theories
    of Ferdinand de Saussure, structuralism
    considered language as a system of signs
    and signification, the elements of which
    are understandable only in relation to
    each other and to the system.
    
    In literary theory, structuralism
    challenged the belief that a work of
    literature reflected a given reality;
    instead, a text was constituted of
    linguistic conventions and situated among
    other texts.
    
    Structuralist critics analyzed material by
    examining underlying structures, such as
    characterization or plot, and attempted to
    show how these patterns were universal and
    could thus be used to develop general
    conclusions about both individual works
    and the systems from which they emerged.
    
    The anthropologist Claude Levi-Strauss was
    an important champion of structuralism, as
    was Roman Jakobsen.
    
    Northrop Frye’s attempts to categorize
    Western literature by archetype had some
    basis in structuralist thought.
    
    Structuralism regarded language as a
    closed, stable system, and by the late
    1960s it had given way to
    poststructuralism.

Sublime
    A lofty, ennobling seriousness as the main
    characteristic of certain poetry, as
    identified in the treatise On the Sublime,
    attributed to the 3rd-century Greek
    rhetorician Cassius Longinus.
    
    The concept took hold in the 18th century
    among English philosophers, critics, and
    poets who associated it with overwhelming
    sensation.
    
    In A Philosophical Inquiry into the Origin
    of our Ideas of the Sublime and the
    Beautiful (1757), Edmund Burke identified
    the sublime as the experience of the
    infinite, which is terrifying and
    thrilling because it threatens to
    overpower the perceived importance of
    human enterprise in the universe.
    
    Aesthetes and writers of the era saw the
    natural world and its wild, mysterious
    expanses as a gateway to the experience of
    the sublime.
    
    Romantic poets such as Percy Bysshe
    Shelley and William Wordsworth were
    influenced by this notion.

Surrealism
    An artistic philosophy that took hold in
    1920s Paris and spread throughout the
    world in the decades that followed.
    
    André Breton outlined its aims in his
    Surrealist Manifesto (1924), affirming the
    supremacy of the “disinterested play of
    thought” and the “omnipotence of dreams”
    rather than reason and logic.
    
    Breton and his colleagues were inspired by
    Freudian psychoanalysis and its emphasis
    on the power of unconscious thought.
    
    Through “automatic writing” and hypnosis,
    artists could free their imaginations to
    reveal deeper truths.
    
    The French poets Charles Baudelaire,
    Arthur Rimbaud, Guillaume Apollinaire, and
    Pierre Reverdy embodied early surrealist
    principles, as did Peruvian poet César
    Vallejo.
    
    Surrealist practices were also used in the
    visual arts, particularly in the paintings
    of Max Ernst, Salvador Dali, Joan Miró,
    and René Magritte, and in the films of
    Jean Cocteau.
    
    A second generation of surrealist writers
    emerged in other parts of the world,
    especially in Latin America; see the poems
    of Pablo Neruda and Octavio Paz.
    
    The surrealist aesthetic has influenced
    modern and contemporary poets writing in
    English as well; James Tate, John Ashbery,
    and Michael Palmer are notable examples.

Syllabic verse
    Poetry whose meter is determined by the
    total number of syllables per line, rather
    than the number of stresses.
    
    Marianne Moore’s poetry is mostly
    syllabic.
    
    Other examples include Thomas Nashe’s
    “Adieu, farewell earth’s bliss” and Dylan
    Thomas’s “Poem in October.” Browse more
    poems in syllabic verse.

Syllable
    A single unit of speech sound as written
    or spoken; specifically, a vowel preceded
    by zero to three consonants (“awl,”
    “bring,” “strand”), and followed by zero
    to four consonants (“too,” “brag,”
    “gloss,” “stings,” “sixths”).

Symbol
    Something in the world of the senses,
    including an action, that reveals or is a
    sign for something else, often abstract or
    otherworldly.
    
    A rose, for example, has long been
    considered a symbol of love and affection.

    Every word denotes, refers to, or labels
    something in the world, but a symbol (to
    which a word, of course, may point) has a
    concreteness not shared by language, and
    can point to something that transcends
    ordinary experience.
    
    Poets such as William Blake and W.B.
    
    Yeats often use symbols when they believe
    in—or seek—a transcendental (religious or
    spiritual) reality.

    A metaphor compares two or more things
    that are no more and no less real than
    anything else in the world.
    
    For a metaphor to be symbolic, one of its
    pair of elements must reveal something
    else transcendental.
    
    In “To the Rose upon the Rood of Time,”
    for instance, Yeats’s image of the rose on
    the cross symbolizes the joining of flesh
    and spirit.
    
    As Cleanth Brooks and Robert Penn Warren
    write in their book Understanding Poetry
    (3rd ed., 1960),“The symbol may be
    regarded as a metaphor from which the
    first term has been omitted.”

    See also allegory and imagism.

Symbolist Movement
    A group of late 19th-century French
    writers, including Arthur Rimbaud and
    Stéphane Mallarmé, who favored dreams,
    visions, and the associative powers of the
    imagination in their poetry.
    
    They rejected their predecessors’ tendency
    toward naturalism and realism, believing
    that the purpose of art was not to
    represent reality but to access greater
    truths by the “systematic derangement of
    the senses,” as Rimbaud described it.
    
    The translated works of Edgar Allan Poe
    influenced the French Symbolists.

Synecdoche
    A figure of speech in which a part of
    something stands for the whole (for
    example, “I’ve got wheels” for “I have a
    car,” or a description of a worker as a
    “hired hand”).
    
    It is related to metonymy.

Synesthesia
    In description, a blending or
    intermingling of different sense
    modalities.
    
    While synesthesia appears in ancient
    literatures, including both the Iliad and
    Odyssey, it became especially popular in
    the 19th century through the work of poets
    such as Charles Baudelaire and Arthur
    Rimbaud and the symbolist movement.
    
    Examples of synesthesia include
    Baudelaire’s “The Ragpickers’ Wine,” where
    he writes of “the dazzling, deafening
    debauch / of bugles.” In her heavily
    synesthetic poem “Aubade,” Dame Edith
    Sitwell describes the “dull blunt wooden
    stalactite / Of rain creaks, hardened by
    the light.” In George Meredith’s “Modern
    Love: I,” a woman’s heart is made to
    “drink the pale drug of silence.”
    Synesthetic effects include textual
    amplification, complication, and richness.
    
    Some poets, notably Percy Bysshe Shelley,
    have used synesthesia to suggest visionary
    states.

Tanka
    A Japanese form of five lines with 5, 7,
    5, 7, and 7 syllables—31 in all.
    
    See Philip Appleman’s “Three Haiku, Two
    Tanka.” See also renga.

Tautology
    A statement redundant in itself, such as
    “free gift” or “The stars, O astral
    bodies!” Also, a statement that is
    necessarily true—a circular argument—such
    as “she is alive because she is living.”

Tercet
    A poetic unit of three lines, rhymed or
    unrhymed.
    
    Thomas Hardy’s “The Convergence of the
    Twain” rhymes AAA BBB; Ben Jonson’s “On
    Spies” is a three-line poem rhyming AAA;
    and Percy Bysshe Shelley’s “Ode to the
    West Wind” is written in terza rima form.
    
    Examples of poems in unrhymed tercets
    include Wallace Stevens’s “The Snow Man”
    and David Wagoner’s “For a Student
    Sleeping in a Poetry Workshop.”

    Browse more poems with tercets.

Terza rima
    An Italian stanzaic form, used most
    notably by Dante Alighieri in Commedia
    (The Divine Comedy), consisting of tercets
    with interwoven rhymes (ABA BCB DED EFE,
    and so on).
    
    A concluding couplet rhymes with the
    penultimate line of the last tercet.
    
    See Percy Bysshe Shelley’s “Ode to the
    West Wind,” Derek Walcott’s “The Bounty,”
    and Omeros, and Jacqueline Osherow’s
    “Autumn Psalm.”

    Browse more poems in terza rima.

Tetrameter
    A line made up of four feet.
    
    See William Shakespeare’s “Fear No More
    the Heat o’ the Sun” or “Channel Firing”
    by Thomas Hardy.

Textual criticism
    A branch of literary criticism concerned
    with analyzing and determining the
    accuracy of texts.
    
    By examining the documents themselves in
    print and manuscript form—as well as any
    associated documentation such as letters,
    journals, or notebooks—textual critics
    attempt to identify and remove errors
    resulting from multiple transcriptions and
    printings and restore the work to its most
    original state.
    
    They also seek to present the text in a
    format that benefits readers and scholars,
    often with facsimile reproductions of the
    original manuscripts or print versions,
    along with a critical apparatus explaining
    textual variants between versions,
    critical commentaries, and bibliographies.
    
    Textual criticism developed out of
    ancient, classical, and Biblical
    scholarship, but has increasingly been
    used to deal with variations found in much
    modern literature, whether as a matter of
    typographical error, authorial revision,
    or historical and cultural textual
    support.
    
    Recent prominent textual critics include
    W.W. Greg, Fredson Bowers, G. Thomas
    Tanselle, D.C.
    
    Greetham, Peter Shillingsburg, and Jerome
    McGann.

Tone
    The poet’s attitude toward the poem’s
    speaker, reader, and subject matter, as
    interpreted by the reader.
    
    Often described as a “mood” that pervades
    the experience of reading the poem, it is
    created by the poem’s vocabulary, metrical
    regularity or irregularity, syntax, use of
    figurative language, and rhyme.

Transcendentalism
    A strain of Romanticism that took root
    among writers in mid-19th-century New
    England.
    
    Ralph Waldo Emerson laid out its
    principles in his 1836 manifesto Nature,
    in which he asserted that the natural and
    material world exists to reveal universal
    meaning to the individual soul via one’s
    subjective experiences.
    
    He promoted the poet’s role as seer, a
    “transparent eyeball” that received
    insight intuitively through his or her
    perception of nature.
    
    Henry David Thoreau was an early disciple
    of Emerson’s philosophy.

Triadic/stepped line
    A poetic line that unfolds in three
    descending or “stepped” parts.
    
    Invented by William Carlos Williams who
    used the device in poems such as “Desert
    Music,” “The Descent,” and “Asphodel, That
    Greeny Flower,” the triadic line was taken
    up by poets such as Thom Gunn and Charles
    Tomlinson.
    
    Williams linked the triadic line to his
    concept of the “variable foot,” a metrical
    device he believed solved the tension of
    form in free verse.
    
    Variously interpreted, the variable foot
    has been taken to mean a unit of time,
    stress, syntax, rhythm, and typography.

Trimeter
    A line of three metrical feet.
    
    Percy Bysshe Shelley’s “To a Skylark”
    employs trochaic trimeter in the first two
    lines of each stanza.
    
    See also Léonie Adams’s “The Mount.”

Triolet
    An eight-line stanza having just two
    rhymes and repeating the first line as the
    fourth and seventh lines, and the second
    line as the eighth.
    
    See Sandra McPherson’s “Triolet” or
    “Triolets in the Argolid” by Rachel Hadas.

Trochee
    A metrical foot consisting of an accented
    syllable followed by an unaccented
    syllable.
    
    Examples of trochaic words include
    “garden” and “highway.” William Blake
    opens “The Tyger” with a predominantly
    trochaic line: “Tyger! Tyger! Burning
    bright.” Edgar Allan Poe’s “The Raven” is
    mainly trochaic.

Ubi sunt
    A number of medieval European poems begin
    with this Latin phrase meaning “Where are
    they?” By posing a series of questions
    about the fate of the strong, beautiful,
    or virtuous, these poems meditate on the
    transitory nature of life and the
    inevitability of death.
    
    The phrase can now refer to any poetry
    that treats these themes.
    
    One of the most famous ubi sunt poems is
    “Ballade des dames du temps jadis”
    (“Ballad of the Ladies of Times Past”) by
    medieval French poet François Villon, with
    its refrain “Where are the snows of
    yesteryear?” See also Thomas Nashe’s
    “Adieu, Farewell, Earth’s Bliss,” Sir
    Philip Sidney’s “Astrophel and Stella CII:
    ‘Where be the roses gone, which sweetened
    so our eyes?’”, and “Where Are the Waters
    of Childhood?” by Mark Strand.

Verisimilitude
    The appearance of being true, or a
    likeness to truth.
    
    Verisimilitude is related to mimesis or
    imitation, though it is also connected to
    ideas of literary decorum and proper use
    of conventions.
    
    Verisimilitude can thus exist in both
    works of literary realism and fantasy,
    since readers’s perceptions of the
    “reality” of a work may depend on the
    inner consistency of elements (such as
    character, language, plot) and not just
    the work’s fidelity to a preexisting outer
    world.
    
    Though more often associated with fiction,
    the principle of verisimilitude can be
    seen in poetry from Homer and Virgil, and
    in the poetry of William Wordsworth and
    Samuel Taylor Coleridge, whose “willing
    suspension of disbelief” is also
    introduced into discussions of the
    technique.

Vers libre
    A French phrase meaning “free verse.”

Verse
    As a mass noun, poetry in general; as a
    regular noun, a line of poetry.
    
    Typically used to refer to poetry that
    possesses more formal qualities.

Verse paragraph
    A group of verse lines that make up a
    single rhetorical unit.
    
    In longer poems, the first line is often
    indented, like a paragraph in prose.
    
    The long narrative passages of John
    Milton’s Paradise Lost are verse
    paragraphs.
    
    The titled sections of Robert Pinsky’s
    “Essay on Psychiatrists” demarcate shifts
    in focus and argument much as prose
    paragraphs would.
    
    A shorter lyric poem, even when broken
    into stanzas, could be considered a single
    verse paragraph, insofar as it expresses a
    unified mood or thought; see Gail Mazur’s
    “Evening.”

Victorian
    Poetry written in England during the reign
    of Queen Victoria (1837-1901) may be
    referred to as Victorian poetry.
    
    Following Romanticism, Victorian poets
    continued many of the previous era’s main
    themes, such as religious skepticism and
    valorization of the artist as genius; but
    Victorian poets also developed a distinct
    sensibility.
    
    The writers of this period are known for
    their interest in verbal embellishment,
    mystical interrogation, brooding
    skepticism, and whimsical nonsense.
    
    The most prolific and well-regarded poets
    of the age included Alfred, Lord Tennyson,
    Robert Browning, Elizabeth Barrett
    Browning, Matthew Arnold, Gerard Manley
    Hopkins, and Oscar Wilde.
    
    Browse more Victorian poets.

Villanelle
    A French verse form consisting of five
    three-line stanzas and a final quatrain,
    with the first and third lines of the
    first stanza repeating alternately in the
    following stanzas.
    
    These two refrain lines form the final
    couplet in the quatrain.
    
    See “Do Not Go Gentle into That Good
    Night” by Dylan Thomas, Elizabeth Bishop’s
    “One Art,” and Edwin Arlington Robinson’s
    “The House on the Hill.”

Volta
    Italian word for “turn.” In a sonnet, the
    volta is the turn of thought or argument:
    in Petrarchan or Italian sonnets it occurs
    between the octave and the sestet, and in
    Shakespearean or English before the final
    couplet.
    
    See Thomas Wyatt’s “Whoso List to Hunt, I
    Know where is an Hind” and William
    Shakespeare's Sonnet 129 [“Th’expense of
    spirit in a waste of shame”] for examples
    of voltas of each type.

Zeugma
    A figure of speech in which one verb or
    preposition joins two objects within the
    same phrase, often with different
    meanings.
    
    For example, “I left my heart—and my
    suitcase—in San Francisco.” Zeugma occurs
    in William Shakespeare’s “Fear No More the
    Heat o’ the Sun”: “Golden Lads, and Girles
    all must / As chimney-sweepers come to
    dust.” Here, “coming to dust” refers to
    the chimney-sweeper’s trade as well as the
    body’s decay.

Adjective-noun pairs
ANP
    A popular mid-level semantic construct for
    capturing affect via visually detectable
    concepts such as “cute dog" or “beautiful
    landscape".

Poetic effects
    The ways by which the different poetic
    levels (as those postulated in this text:
    Poetics I, Poetics II) are perceived,
    cognized, and/or experienced.

syzygy
    The combination of two metrical feet into
    a single unit, similar to an elision.
    
    Consonantal or phonetic syzygy is also
    similar to the effect of alliteration,
    where one consonant is used repeatedly
    throughout a passage, but not necessarily
    at the beginning of each word.
