cryptozoology
    A pseudoscience and subculture that aims
    to prove the existence of entities from
    the folklore record, such as Bigfoot, the
    Loch Ness Monster, Yeti, the chupacabra,
    the Jersey Devil, or the Mokele-mbembe.
    
    Cryptozoologists refer to these entities
    as cryptids, a term coined by the
    subculture.

cryptid
    [#cryptozoology]

    An animal whose existence or survival is
    disputed or unsubstantiated, such as the
    yeti.

numerology
    The belief in the divine or mystical
    relationship between a number and one or
    more coinciding events.
    
    It is also the study of the numerical
    value of the letters in words, names, and
    ideas.
    
    It is often associated with the
    paranormal, alongside astrology and
    similar to divinatory arts.

extropy
    [pseudoscience]

    The pseudoscientific principle that life
    will expand indefinitely and in an
    orderly, progressive way throughout the
    entire universe by the means of human
    intelligence and technology.

    "a subculture of technocrats thriving in
    the US calls the life force ‘extropy’".

    First coined to serve as an antonym of
    entropy, substituting its en- element
    (representing the prepositional prefix ἐν
    (en), en, “in” in its Ancient Greek etymon
    ἐντροπία (entropía), entropia, “a turning
    towards”) with ex- (representing the
    Ancient Greek ἐξ (ex), ex, “out of”,
    “from”); because ἐξ (ex) takes the form ἐκ
    (ek) when prefixed to an element beginning
    with τ (t), the analogical spelling is
    ectropy (or, alternatively, ektropy), as
    if after the Ancient Greek *ἐκτροπία
    (ektropía, “a turning out of”).

pseudoscience
    The big difference between science and
    pseudo-science is a difference in
    attitude. While a pseudo-science is set up
    to look for evidence that supports its
    claims, Popper says, a science is set up
    to challenge its claims and look for
    evidence that might prove it false.

memetics
    The study of information and culture based
    on an analogy with Darwinian evolution.
    
    Proponents describe memetics as an
    approach to evolutionary models of
    cultural information transfer.
    
    Memetics describes how an idea can
    propagate successfully, but doesn't
    necessarily imply a concept is factual.