epiphenomenon
    An epiphenomenon is a secondary phenomenon
    that occurs alongside or in parallel to a
    primary phenomenon.

    The word has two senses: one that connotes
    known causation and one that connotes
    absence of causation or reservation of
    judgment about it.

epiphenomenalism
    The view that mental events are caused by
    physical events in the brain, but have no
    effects upon any physical events.

    Behavior is caused by muscles that
    contract upon receiving neural impulses,
    and neural impulses are generated by input
    from other neurons or from sense organs.

bracketing
    The preliminary step in the philosophical
    movement of phenomenology describing an
    act of suspending judgment about the
    natural world to instead focus on analysis
    of experience.

phenomenology
    A philosophy of experience.
    
    For phenomenology the ultimate source of
    all meaning and value is the lived
    experience of human beings.
    
    All philosophical systems, scientific
    theories, or aesthetic judgments have the
    status of abstractions from the ebb and
    flow of the lived world.

phenomenological intuition

descriptive phenomenology
descriptive phenomenological method
    [method]

    A powerful way to understand subjective
    experience and to gain insights around
    people's actions and motivations, cutting
    through long-held assumptions and
    challenging conventional wisdom.
    
    It may contribute to the development of
    new theories, changes in policies, or
    changes in responses.

    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Descriptive_phenomenological_method_in_psychology

    phenomenological intuition

    Involves neither deduction nor induction
    in order to find meaning, but instead asks
    the researcher to intuit what is essential
    to the phenomenon being studied.
    
    Intuition, in this sense (going along with
    the philosophy of phenomenology), simply
    means that an object (or state of affairs,
    structural whole, proposition etc.)
    becomes presented to consciousness in a
    certain mode of giveness.
    
    In the context of this research method,
    therefore, intuition is used in order to
    get a sense of the lived meaning of each
    description so as to relate them to what
    is known about the phenomenon of interest
    in general These types of generalities are
    not statistical probabilities nor
    universally posited, but are dependent
    upon the lived meaning of the descriptions
    and the meaning of the phenomenon being
    studied.

phenomenological reduction
    The meditative practice described by
    Edmund Husserl, the founder of
    phenomenology, whereby one, as a
    phenomenologist, is able to liberate
    oneself from the captivation in which one
    is held by all that one accepts as being
    the case.

    Three basic stages in phenomenological
    reduction:
    1. the epoche,
    2. the eidetic reduction, and
    3. the transcendental reduction.

    https://www.sjsu.edu/people/anand.vaidya/courses/c2/s0/Phenomenological-Reduction-and-Yogic-Meditation-by-R.-Puligandla.pdf

epoche
    The epoche stage consists of setting aside
    (bracketing) all the beliefs, theories,
    and attitudes about oneself and the world
    which have so far been taken for granted.

    Thus the belief in an independently
    existing world of objects and qualities is
    set aside; the laws of logic, mathematics,
    and sciences, norms and values are all
    brought into question and put aside.
    
    Phenomenology, according to Husserl, must
    be a rigorous science; it must also be
    presuppositionless, in the sense that it
    must attain absolutely valid knowledge of
    things.

    All nonphilosophical sciences are based on
    various kinds of presuppositions which
    cannot be validated within those sciences
    themselves.

eidetic reduction
    One passes from facts to essences.
    
    Thus one may choose anything whatever as
    the object of eidetic reduction and
    analyses.
    
    The object may be a color, figure,
    relation, feeling, perception, or a
    principle.
    
    Then the object is investigated from
    various points of view; for instance,
    modifications of perception, memory, and
    fantasy.
    
    The role of fantasy in eidetic reduction
    cannot be overemphasized, for the fully
    arbitrary character of fantasy, without
    any regard to the reality or unreality of
    the object, brings out the essential
    character of the object, those invariant,
    necessary characteristics without which
    the object cannot be what it is.
    
    Thus one grasps by intuition the
    immediate, absolute, and unique essences
    of all objects of that class.
    
    The essences so grasped are known as the
    "eidos." The eidos, however, must not be
    mistaken for generalities or general ideas
    of empirical sciences.
    
    For Husserl the eidos are pure
    generalities which put before our mind
    pure possibilities whose validity is
    independent of experience.

transcendental reduction
    It is common knowledge that the doctrine
    of intentionality of consciousness is
    central to phenomenology.
    
    According to this doctrine, consciousness
    is always the consciousness of something
    (or other).
    
    That is, every act of consciousness has an
    object, or one may say equivalently that
    every act of consciousness intends
    something.
    
    Once this is granted, it follows that if
    an act of a certain structure is present,
    then by that very fact a certain object is
    also present; also, more importantly, the
    character of this object is codetermined
    by the character of the consciousness in
    which it appears.
    
    Thus, according to phenomenology, the key
    for understanding and grasping the essence
    of any object is to grasp the structure of
    consciousness which determines the object.

pareidolia
    The tendency for perception to impose a
    meaningful interpretation on a nebulous
    stimulus, usually visual, so that one sees
    an object, pattern, or meaning where there
    is none.
