https://www.quantamagazine.org/the-spooky-quantum-phenomenon-youve-never-heard-of-20220622/

decoherence rate
    A nonlinear channel parameter that
    describes quantitatively the decay of the
    off-diagonal elements of a density
    operator in the decoherence basis.
    
    We address the question of how to
    experimentally access such a nonlinear
    parameter directly without the need of
    complete process tomography.

Quantum decoherence
    The loss of quantum coherence.
    
    In quantum mechanics, particles such as
    electrons are described by a wave
    function, a mathematical representation of
    the quantum state of a system; a
    probabilistic interpretation of the wave
    function is used to explain various
    quantum effects.

    Decoherence has been used to understand
    the possibility of the collapse of the
    wave function in quantum mechanics.
    
    Decoherence does not generate actual wave-
    function collapse.
    
    It only provides a framework for apparent
    wave-function collapse, as the quantum
    nature of the system "leaks" into the
    environment.

bell inequalities
    https://youtu.be/9rIy0xY99a0?t=531

many body quantum mechanics
many-body theory
many-body problem
many-body physics
    An area of physics which provides the
    framework for understanding the collective
    behavior of large numbers of interacting
    particles, often on the order of
    Avogadro's number.

    Deals with effects that manifest
    themselves only in systems containing
    large numbers of constituents.

    While the underlying physical laws that
    govern the motion of each individual
    particle may (or may not) be simple, the
    study of the collection of particles can
    be extremely complex.

    In some cases emergent phenomena may arise
    which bear little resemblance to the
    underlying elementary laws.

    Many-body theory plays a central role in
    condensed matter physics.

Schrödinger equation
    A linear partial differential equation
    that describes the wave function or state
    function of a quantum-mechanical system.
    It is a key result in quantum mechanics,
    and its discovery was a significant
    landmark in the development of the
    subject.

    Describes how the state of a system
    evolves.

    https://youtu.be/hXgqik6HXc0?t=625

nonlocality
    Measure one particle in an entangled pair
    whose partner is miles away, and the
    measurement seems to rip through the
    intervening space to instantaneously
    affect its partner.
    
    This “spooky action at a distance” (as
    Albert Einstein called it) has been the
    main focus of tests of quantum theory.
    
    “Nonlocality is spectacular. I mean, it’s
    like magic,” said Adán Cabello, a
    physicist at the University of Seville in
    Spain.

contextuality
    Properties of particles, such as their
    position or polarization, exist only
    within the context of a measurement.
    
    Instead of thinking of particles’
    properties as having fixed values,
    consider them more like words in language,
    whose meanings can change depending on the
    context: “Time flies like an arrow.
    
    Fruit flies like bananas.” Although
    contextuality has lived in nonlocality’s
    shadow for over 50 years, quantum
    physicists now consider it more of a
    hallmark feature of quantum systems than
    nonlocality is.
    
    A single particle, for instance, is a
    quantum system “in which you cannot even
    think about nonlocality,” since the
    particle is only in one location, said
    Bárbara Amaral, a physicist at the
    University of São Paulo in Brazil.
    
    “So [contextuality] is more general in
    some sense, and I think this is important
    to really understand the power of quantum
    systems and to go deeper into why quantum
    theory is the way it is.” Researchers have
    also found tantalizing links between
    contextuality and problems that quantum
    computers can efficiently solve that
    ordinary computers cannot; investigating
    these links could help guide researchers
    in developing new quantum computing
    approaches and algorithms.

condensed matter physics