Absolute Zero
    Absolute zero is the lowest temperature
    that is theoretically possible, at which
    the motion of particles that constitutes
    heat would be minimal.
    
    It is zero on the Kelvin scale, equivalent
    to –273.15°C or –459.67°F.
    
    In order to increase stability, most
    quantum computing systems operate at
    temperatures near absolute zero.

Algorithm
    An algorithm is the specification of a
    precise set of instructions that can be
    mechanically applied to yield the solution
    to any given instance of a problem.

Anyon
    An anyon is an elementary particle or
    particle-like excitation having properties
    intermediate between those of bosons and
    fermions.
    
    The anyon is sometimes referred to as a
    Majorana fermion but a more appropriate
    term to apply to the anyon is a particle
    in a Majorana bound state or in a Majorana
    zero mode.
    
    This name is more appropriate than
    Majorana fermion because the statistics of
    these objects is no longer fermionic.
    
    Instead, the Majorana bound states are an
    example of non-abelian anyons:
    interchanging them changes the state of
    the system in a way that depends only on
    the order in which the exchange was
    performed.
    
    The non-abelian statistics that Majorana
    bound states possess allows them to be
    used as a building block for a topological
    quantum computer.

Bose-Einstein Condensate
    The Bose-Einstein Condensate is a super-
    cold cloud of atoms that behaves like a
    single atom that was predicted by Albert
    Einstein and Indian theorist Satyendra
    Nath Bose.
    
    Peter Engels, a researcher at Washington
    State University, explains, “This large
    group of atoms does not behave like a
    bunch of balls in a bucket.
    
    It behaves as one big super-atom.
    
    Therefore it magnifies the effects of
    quantum mechanics.” Theoretically, a Bose-
    Einstein condensate (BEC) can act as a
    stable qubit.

Coherence Time
    Coherence time is the length of time a
    quantum superposition state can survive.

Doped Diamonds
    A doped diamond is one into which a defect
    has been intentionally added.
    
    Physicists have discovered that they can
    can make good use of these defects to
    manipulating the spin of quantum
    particles.

Entanglement
    Entanglement is a physical phenomenon that
    occurs when pairs or groups of particles
    are generated or interact in ways such
    that the quantum state of each particle
    cannot be described independently.
    
    If you think that is difficult to
    understand, you’re not alone.
    
    Albert Einstein referred to this
    phenomenon as “spooky action at a
    distance.”

’Fault-tolerant’ Material
    Fault tolerant materials are a unique
    class of advanced materials that are
    electrically insulating on the inside but
    conducting on the surface.
    
    Inducing high-temperature
    superconductivity on the surface of a
    topological insulator opens the door to
    the creation of a pre-requisite for fault-
    tolerant quantum computing.
    
    One of those materials is graphene.
    
    Interestingly, the edges of graphene
    basically turn it into a kind of
    topological insulator that could be used
    in quantum computers.

Magic State Distillation
    Magic State Distillation is the “magic”
    behind universal quantum computation.
    
    It is a particular approach to building
    noise-resistant quantum computers.
    
    To overcome the detrimental effects of
    unwanted noise, so-called “fault-tolerant”
    techniques are developed and employed.
    
    Magic states are an essential (but
    difficult to achieve and maintain) extra
    ingredient that boosts the power of a
    quantum device to achieve the improved
    processing power of a quantum computer.

Micro-drum
    A micro-drum is a microscopic mechanical
    drum.
    
    It has been reported that physicists at
    the National Institute of Standards and
    Technology (NIST) have ‘entangled’ a
    microscopic mechanical drum with
    electrical signals confirming that it
    could be used as a quantum memory.
    
    NIST’s achievement also marks the first-
    ever entanglement of a macroscopic
    oscillator which expands the range of
    practical uses of the drum.

Quantum Contextuality
    Quantum contextuality is a phenomenon
    necessary for the “magic” behind universal
    quantum computation.
    
    Physicists have long known that measuring
    things at the quantum level establishes a
    state that didn’t exist before the
    measurement.
    
    In other words, what you measure
    necessarily depends on how you carried out
    the observation – it depends on the
    ‘context’ of the experiment.
    
    Scientists at the Perimeter Institute for
    Theoretical Physics have discovered that
    this context is the key to unlocking the
    potential power of quantum computation.

Quantum Logic Gates
    In quantum computing and specifically the
    quantum circuit model of computation, a
    quantum gate (or quantum logic gate) is a
    basic quantum circuit operating on a small
    number of qubits.
    
    They are the building blocks of quantum
    circuits, like classical logic gates are
    for conventional digital circuits.
    
    Quantum logic gates are represented by
    unitary matrices.
    
    The most common quantum gates operate on
    spaces of one or two qubits, just like the
    common classical logic gates operate on
    one or two bits.
    
    This means that as matrices, quantum gates
    can be described by 2 × 2 or 4 × 4 unitary
    matrices.
    
    Quantum gates are usually represented as
    matrices.
    
    A gate which acts on k qubits is
    represented by a 2k x 2k unitary matrix.
    
    The number of qubits in the input and
    output of the gate have to be equal.

Quantum Memory State
    Quantum Memory State is the state in which
    qubits much sustain themselves in order to
    be of value in quantum computing.
    
    To date, these states have proved
    extremely fragile because the least bit of
    interference at the quantum level can
    destroy them.
    
    For this reason, most experiments with
    qubits require particles to be cooled to
    near absolute zero as well as heavy
    shielding.

Quantum Register
    A collection of n qubits is called a
    quantum register of size n.

Qubit
    A quantum bit or qubit operates in the
    weirdly wonderful world of quantum
    mechanics.
    
    At that level, subatomic particles can
    exist in multiple states at once.
    
    This is multi-state capability is called
    superposition.
    
    One commonly used particle is the
    electron, and state normally used to
    generate a superposition is spin (spin up
    could represent a “0” and spin down could
    represent a “1”.
    
    Additional qubits can be added by a
    process called entanglement.
    
    Theoretically, each extra entangled qubit
    doubles the number of parallel operations
    that can be carried out.
    
    MIT’s Seth Lloyd notes, “We could map the
    whole Universe — all of the information
    that has existed since the Big Bang — onto
    300 qubits.”

Spin
    Spin sometimes called “nuclear spin” or
    “intrinsic spin” is the quantum version
    form of angular momentum carried by
    elementary particles, composite particles
    (hadrons), and atomic nuclei.
    
    Having said that, the website Ask a
    Mathematician/Ask a Physicist states,
    “Spin has nothing to do with actual
    spinning.
    
    … Physicists use the word ‘spin’ or
    ‘intrinsic spin’ to distinguish the
    angular momentum that particles ‘just
    kinda have’ from the regular angular
    momentum of physically rotating things.”

Superposition
    Superposition is an ambiguous state in
    which a particle can be both a “0” and a
    “1”.

Topological Qubit
    Topological qubits rely on a rare and
    extraordinarily finicky quantum state;
    however, once formed, they theoretically
    would behave like sturdy knots — resistant
    to the disturbances that wreck the
    delicate properties of every other kind of
    qubit.

Transmon
    A transmon is a superconducting loop-
    shaped qubit that can be created at
    extremely low temperatures and, at the
    moment, up to five of them can be linked
    together.
    
    A standard transmon can maintain its
    coherence for around 50 microseconds –
    long enough to be used in quantum
    circuits.
    
    What’s more, coherence times twice that
    length, and transmon arrays of 10 to 20
    loops, are supposedly just around the
    corner.

Xmon
    An Xmon is a cross-shaped qubit created by
    a team at the University of California,
    Santa Barbara.
    
    The team found that by placing five Xmons
    in a single row (with each qubit talking
    to its nearest neighbor) they were able to
    create a stable and effective quantum
    arrangement that provides the most
    stability and fewest errors.
    
    Like most other qubits, the Xmon must be
    created at temperatures approaching
    absolute zero.

Bloch Sphere
    In quantum mechanics, the Bloch sphere is
    a geometrical representation of the pure
    state space of a two-level quantum
    mechanical system (qubit), named after the
    physicist Felix Bloch.
    
    The Bloch sphere is a unit sphere, with
    antipodal points corresponding to a pair
    of mutually orthogonal state vectors.
    
    The Bloch Sphere provides the following
    interpretation: the poles represent
    classical bits and we use the notation |0⟩
    and |1⟩.
    
    However, while these are the only possible
    states for the classical bit
    representation, quantum bits cover the
    whole sphere.
    
    Thus, there is much more information
    involved in the quantum bits, and the
    Bloch sphere depicts this.
    
    When the qubit is measured, it collapses
    to one of the two poles.
    
    Which of the two poles depends on which
    direction the arrow in the Bloch
    representation points to: if the arrow is
    closer to the north pole, there is a
    greater probability of collapsing to that
    pole; and the same for the south pole.
    
    It should be observed that this introduces
    the notion of probability to the Bloch
    sphere: the angle θ of the arrow with the
    vertical axes corresponds to that
    probability.
    
    If the arrow points to the equator, there
    is 50-50 chance of collapsing at either
    pole.

Coherence
    The coherence of a qubit, roughly
    speaking, is its ability to maintain
    superposition over time.
    
    It is therefore the absence of
    “decoherence”, which is any process that
    collapses the quantum state into a
    classical state, for instance by
    interaction with an environment.

DiVincenzo Criteria
    The DiVincenzo criteria are a list of
    conditions that are necessary to construct
    a quantum computer, and they were first
    proposed by the theoretical physicist
    David P.
    
    DiVincenzo in his 2000 paper “The Physical
    Implementation of Quantum Computation”.
    
    The DiVincenzo criteria consist of 5+2
    conditions that an experimental setup must
    satisfy in order to successfully implement
    quantum algorithms, such as Grover’s
    search algorithm, or Shor factorisation.
    
    The two additional conditions are
    necessary to implement quantum
    communication, such as that used in the
    quantum key distribution.

    1 - A scalable physical system with well characterized qubits.
    2 - The ability to initialize the state of the qubits to a simple fiducial state.
    3 - Long relevant decoherence times.
    4 - A "universal" set of quantum gates.
    5 - A qubit-specific measurement capability.
    6 - The ability to interconvert stationary and flying qubits.
    7 - The ability to faithfully transmit flying qubits between specified locations.

Entanglement
    Quantum entanglement is a special
    connection between two qubits.
    
    There are many ways of generating
    entanglement.
    
    One way is to bring two qubits close
    together, to perform an operation to
    entangle them and then move them apart
    again.
    
    When they are entangled, you can move them
    arbitrarily far away from each other and
    they will remain entangled.
    
    This entanglement will manifest itself in
    the outcomes of measurements on these
    qubits.
    
    When measured, these qubits will always
    yield zero or one randomly, but no matter
    how far away they are from each other,
    they will always yield the same outcome.
    
    Entanglement has two very special
    properties that allow all the applications
    derived from it to be made: the first
    property is that entanglement cannot be
    shared.
    
    If two qubits are maximally entangled with
    each other, then no other party in the
    universe can have a share of this
    entanglement.
    
    This property is called the monogamy of
    entanglement.
    
    The second property of entanglement, which
    makes it so powerful, is called maximal
    coordination.
    
    This property manifests itself when
    measuring the qubits.
    
    When two qubits that are entangled are
    measured in the same basis, no matter how
    far away they are from each other, they
    will always yield the same outcome.
    
    This outcome is not decided beforehand,
    but is completely random and decided on
    when the measurement takes place.

Majorana Fermions
    Elementary particles, (the “fermions”)
    which form the matter, are described by an
    equation formulated in 1928 by Paul Dirac,
    the Dirac Equation.
    
    It implies that every fundamental particle
    in the universe has an antiparticle, which
    has the same mass but the opposite charge.
    
    In 1932 was found the first antiparticle:
    the positron, associated with the
    electron.
    
    The electron and the other elementary
    particles have distinct antiparticles and
    they acquire mass through Higgs mechanism:
    in physics they are called “Dirac
    fermions”.
    
    In 1937, the Italian physicist Ettore
    Majorana found out a more general equation
    (Majorana Equation) that predicts the
    existence of neutral fermions (without
    electric charge) that are their own
    antiparticles.
    
    Majorana fermions are exotic particles
    because they acquire the mass, not through
    Higgs mechanism, but interacting with
    themselves, because they are their own
    antiparticles.
    
    This kind of interaction happens without
    annihilation, because Majorana fermions
    are very stable and interact very little
    with “ordinary” matter.

Measurement
    Measurement is the act of observing a
    quantum state.
    
    This observation will yield classical
    information, such as a bit.
    
    It is important to note that this
    measurement process will change the
    quantum state.
    
    For instance, if the state is in
    superposition, this measurement will
    ‘collapse’ it into a classical state: zero
    or one.
    
    This collapse process takes place
    randomly.
    
    Before a measurement is done, there is no
    way of knowing what the outcome will be.
    
    However, it is possible to calculate the
    probability of each outcome.
    
    This probability is a prediction about the
    quantum state, a prediction that we can
    test by preparing the state several times,
    measuring it and then counting the
    fraction of each outcome.

No Cloning Theorem
    The no-cloning principle is a fundamental
    property of quantum mechanics which states
    that, given an unknown quantum state,
    there is no reliable way of producing
    extra copies of that state.
    
    This means that information encoded in
    quantum states is essentially unique.
    
    This is sometimes very annoying, such as
    when you want to protect quantum
    information from outside influences, but
    it is also sometimes very useful, such as
    when you want to communicate securely with
    someone else.

Quantum Advantage
    For a given problem, the improvement in
    run time for a quantum computer versus a
    conventional computer running the best
    known conventional algorithm.

Quantum Algorithm
    An algorithm is a collection of
    instructions that allows you to compute a
    function, for instance the square of a
    number.
    
    A quantum algorithm is exactly the same
    thing, but the instructions also allow
    superpositions to be made and entanglement
    to be created.
    
    This allows quantum algorithms to do
    certain things that cannot be done
    efficiently with regular algorithms.

Quantum Dot
    Quantum dots are effectively “artificial
    atoms.” They are nanocrystals of
    semiconductor wherein an electron-hole
    pair can be trapped.
    
    The nanometer size is comparable to the
    wavelength of light and so, just like in
    an atom, the electron can occupy discrete
    energy levels.
    
    The dots can be confined in a photonic
    crystal cavity, where they can be probed
    with laser light.

Quantum Error Correction
    Quantum computers are always in contact
    with the environment.
    
    This environment can disturb the
    computational state of the system, thereby
    causing information loss.
    
    Quantum error correction combats this loss
    by taking the computational state of the
    system and spreading it out over an
    entangled state over many qubits.
    
    This entanglement allows outside classical
    observers to observe and remedy
    disturbances without observing the
    computational state itself, which would
    collapse it.

Quantum Internet
    Researchers at QuTech in the Netherlands
    are trying to build the world’s first
    quantum internet.
    
    Quantum Internet is like the regular
    Internet but it can send quantum states
    and establish entanglement.
    
    Building a full-scale quantum internet is
    of course very hard.
    
    So they will begin by establishing a small
    four-node network by 2020.
    
    This four-node network would serve as a
    testbed for the larger network.
    
    The four nodes in this network will be
    four cities in the Netherlands: Delft,
    Amsterdam, Leiden and The Hague.

Quantum Indeterminacy
    The fundamental condition of existence,
    supported by all empirical evidence, in
    which an isolated quantum system, such as
    a free electron, does not possess fixed
    properties until observed in experiments
    designed to measure those properties.
    
    That is, a particle does not have a
    specific mass, or position, or velocity,
    or spin, until those properties are
    measured.
    
    Indeed, in a strict sense the particle
    does not exist until observed.

Quantum Logic Gates
    Quantum Logic Gates are analogous to
    conventional electronic logic gates in
    conventional computers but different in
    that the system follows the strange rules
    of quantum mechanics.
    
    An early realization of a quantum logic
    gate used a single trapped beryllium ion
    to demonstrate a two-bit quantum logic
    gate.
    
    One qubit, the control qubit, is specified
    by the (quantized) external vibrations of
    the ion in the atom trap; the two lowest
    vibrational levels correspond to values of
    0 and 1.
    
    The other qubit (the target qubit) is
    specified by an internal state of one of
    the ion’s electrons; it has a “spin-down”
    state (0) and a “spin-up” state (1).
    
    Shooting laser pulses at a single ion
    causes it to act as a two-bit “controlled
    NOT” gate.
    
    If the control qubit is 0, the target bit
    is left alone.
    
    If the control qubit is 1, the target bit
    flips its spin.

Quantum Key Distribution (QKD)
    Quantum key distribution (QKD) is a method
    that leverages the properties of quantum
    mechanics, such as the no cloning theorem,
    to allow two people to securely agree on a
    key (OTP – One Time Pad).
    
    A key in this context is a secret code-
    word that is shared only between you and
    the person you are trying to communicate
    with.
    
    This secret code-word can then be used to
    encrypt messages such that they can be
    transmitted without being read by a
    malicious third party.

Quantum Repeater
    Quantum repeaters enable long distance
    communication over a quantum network.
    
    An optical fiber can transmit a qubit over
    roughly 100 kilometers.
    
    If you want to send a quantum information
    over an very long distance just a fiber is
    not good enough.
    
    To send information over this long
    distances we need quantum repeaters.
    
    Quantum repeaters can be thought of as a
    series of short entangled links connecting
    the two points.
    
    The quantum information can then be
    teleported through these links and arrive
    safely at its destination.

Quantum Sensors
    A quantum sensor is a device that exploits
    quantum correlations, such as quantum
    entanglement, to achieve a sensitivity or
    resolution that is better than can be
    achieved using only classical systems.
    
    A quantum sensor can measure the effect of
    the quantum state of another system on
    itself.
    
    The mere act of measurement influences the
    quantum state and alters the probability
    and uncertainty associated with its state
    during measurement.
    
    Quantum sensor is also a term used in
    other settings where entangled quantum
    systems are exploited to make better
    atomic clocks or more sensitive
    magnetometers.
    
    If you have a super sensitive detector,
    its killer app is surely in measuring the
    smallest effects you could possibly
    imagine.
    
    This might mean be the tiny disturbances
    in space as a gravitational wave goes by;
    or a small change in a magnetic field,
    perhaps that of the Earth itself; or even
    overcoming the shortcomings of
    conventional radar systems, to build a
    quantum radar for detecting stealth
    planes.

Quantum Tunneling
    Quantum Tunnelling is the quantum
    mechanical effect in which particles have
    a finite probability of crossing an energy
    barrier, or transitioning through an
    energy state normally forbidden to them by
    classical physics, due to the wave-like
    aspect of particles.
    
    The probability wave of a particle
    represents the probability of finding the
    particle in a certain location, and there
    is a finite probability that the particle
    is located on the other side of the
    barrier.

Quantum Simulators
    Quantum simulation, which originated to a
    great extent with Richard Feynman’s 1982
    proposal, has evolved into a field where
    scientists use a controllable quantum
    system to study a second, less
    experimentally feasible quantum
    phenomenon.
    
    In short, a full-scale quantum computer
    does not yet exist, and classical
    computers often cannot solve quantum
    problems, thus a “quantum simulator”
    presents an attractive alternative to gain
    insight into, for example, complex
    material properties.

Quantum Supremacy
    A calculation on a quantum computer that
    cannot be in practice be performed on any
    foreseeable conventional computer.
    
    Either the number of CPU steps required or
    the necessary computer memory increases
    exponentially with the size of the input.
    
    This means that for all but the simplest
    cases, the calculation becomes unfeasible
    on a real machine using only conventional
    digital hardware.

Qubit
    A classical bit can be in two states, it
    can be either zero or it can be one.
    
    A quantum bit or qubit, however, can be in
    a sort of zero state and in a one state at
    the same time.
    
    This situation is called a superposition
    of (quantum) states.
    
    Qubits have some very particular
    properties: for instance, it is not
    possible to make copies of qubits.
    
    This is sometimes very useful, such as
    when you want to keep information private,
    and in fact this property is used in
    quantum cryptography.
    
    But it is also sometimes very annoying,
    because if you can’t copy a qubit, you
    can’t use this copying mechanism as a way
    to fix errors.

Superconducting Quantum Computing
    Superconducting quantum computing is an
    implementation of a quantum computer in
    superconducting electronic circuits.
    
    Research in superconducting quantum
    computing is conducted by IBM, Google,
    Rigetti Computing, Microsoft and Intel.
    
    The devices are typically designed in the
    radio-frequency spectrum, cooled down in
    dilution refrigerators below 100mK and
    addressed with conventional electronic
    instruments, e.g.
    
    frequency synthesizers and spectrum
    analyzers.
    
    The typical dimensions, of a scale of
    micrometers, with sub-micrometer
    resolution, allow a convenient design of a
    quantum Hamiltonian with the well-
    established integrated circuit technology.

Superposition
    Superposition is a fundamental principle
    of quantum mechanics.
    
    It states that, like waves in classical
    physics, quantum states can be added
    together – superposed – to yield a new
    valid quantum state; and conversely, that
    every quantum state can be seen as a
    linear combination, a sum of other
    distinct quantum states.

Teleportation
    Quantum teleportation is a method to send
    qubits using entanglement.
    
    Teleportation works as follows: first
    Alice and Bob need to establish an
    entangled pair of qubits between them.
    
    Alice then takes the qubit that she wants
    to send and the qubit that is entangled
    with Bob’s qubit and performs a
    measurement on them.
    
    This measurement collapses the qubits and
    destroys the entanglement, but gives her
    two classical outcomes in the form of two
    classical bits.
    
    Alice takes this two classical bits and
    sends them over the classical Internet to
    Bob.
    
    Bob then applies a correction operation
    that depends on these two classical bits
    to his qubit.
    
    This allows him to recover the qubit that
    was originally in Alice’s possession.
    
    Note that we have now transmitted a qubit
    without really using a physical carrier
    that is capable of transmitting qubits.
    
    But of course you already need
    entanglement to do this.
    
    It is also important to note that quantum
    teleportation does not allow for faster
    than light communication.
    
    This is so because Bob cannot make sense
    of the qubit in her possession before he
    gets the classical measurement outcomes
    from Alice.
    
    These classical measurement outcomes must
    take a certain amount of time to be
    transmitted.
    
    And this time is lower bounded by the
    speed of light.

Topological Quantum Computing
    A topological quantum computer is a
    theoretical quantum computer that employs
    two-dimensional quasiparticles called
    anyons, whose world lines pass around one
    another to form braids in a three-
    dimensional spacetime (i.e., one temporal
    plus two spatial dimensions).
    
    These braids form the logic gates that
    make up the computer.
    
    The advantage of a quantum computer based
    on quantum braids over using trapped
    quantum particles is that the former is
    much more stable.
    
    Small, cumulative perturbations can cause
    quantum states to decohere and introduce
    errors in the computation, but such small
    perturbations do not change the braids’
    topological properties.
    
    This is like the effort required to cut a
    string and reattach the ends to form a
    different braid, as opposed to a ball
    (representing an ordinary quantum particle
    in four-dimensional spacetime) bumping
    into a wall.
    
    Alexei Kitaev proposed topological quantum
    computation in 1997.

Universal Quantum Computer
    A Quantum Turing machine (QTM), also a
    universal quantum computer, is an abstract
    machine used to model the effect of a
    quantum computer.
    
    It provides a very simple model which
    captures all of the power of quantum
    computation.
    
    Any quantum algorithm can be expressed
    formally as a particular quantum Turing
    machine.
    
    Such Turing machines were first proposed
    in a 1985 article written by Oxford
    University physicist David Deutsch
    suggesting quantum gates could function in
    a similar fashion to traditional digital
    computing binary logic gates.
    
    Quantum Turing machines are not always
    used for analyzing quantum computation;
    the quantum circuit is a more common
    model. These models are computationally
    equivalent.

amplitude
    Amplitudes are complex numbers, and each
    possible outcome has a corresponding
    amplitude.
    
    Amplitudes are analogous to conventional
    probabilities, as the magnitude of the
    amplitude is correlated to the chance of
    measuring that outcome.
    
    Unlike conventional probabilities,
    amplitudes have phase and can interfere
    with each other.

auxiliary qubit
    Certain quantum operations require, or can
    be made more efficient using, extra qubits
    that do not store the inputs or outputs of
    the operation.
    
    Since these extra qubits do not contain
    useful information before or after the
    operation, their role is auxiliary.
    
    If the state of the auxiliary qubits is
    known before the operation, they are known
    as ‘clean’ qubits (and are usually set to
    ).
    
    If the state is unknown, they are referred
    to as ‘dirty’ qubits.

backend
    The term backend can refer to either a
    quantum system or a high-performance
    classical simulator of a quantum system.
    
    At our Compute resources page we list all
    current IBM Quantum systems and
    simulators.

Bloch sphere
    The Bloch sphere (named after Felix Bloch)
    is a visual representation of the state of
    a qubit.
    
    Note that the Bloch sphere is different
    from the q-sphere; for more details, see
    the q-sphere visualization topic in the
    IBM Quantum Composer docs.
    
    Multiple states can also be simultaneously
    displayed (see below).
    
    The components of the Bloch representation
    of the qubit state are found from the
    expectation values of the , , and gates.
    
    A qubit described by a statevector has
    unit length and is found on the surface of
    the Bloch sphere.
    
    Qubits characterized by a density matrix
    will in general have length less than one,
    as determined by the purity of the state,
    and lie within the Bloch sphere.
    
    Evolution of a qubit statevector after
    applying a series of gates.

classical register
    See register.

CLOPS
    CLOPS, or circuit layer operations per
    second, is a measure of how many layers of
    a QV circuit a QPU (quantum processing
    unit) can execute per unit of time.
    
    Find more information about this metric in
    the paper called Quality, Speed, and
    Scale: three key attributes to measure the
    performance of near-term quantum
    computers.

entanglement
    Entanglement is a property of quantum
    systems comprised of more than one
    subsystem (i.e., qubits), where the
    quantum state of any one subsystem cannot
    be uniquely described independently of the
    remaining subsystems.
    
    Mathematically an entangled state is one
    that can not be written as as product of
    subsystem states.
    
    Subsystems of entangled states are mixed
    states requiring a density matrix
    representation.
    
    For a bipartite quantum system, the
    entanglement is equal to the entropy of
    the subsystems.

fair-share queue
    Fair-share queuing executes jobs on a
    quantum system in a dynamic order so that
    no provider can monopolize the system.
    
    The shares in fair-share queuing represent
    the fraction of system time that is
    allocated to a given provider.
    
    Providers with the most device time have
    the highest priority in the fair-share
    algorithm.
    
    A provider’s dynamic priority depends on
    how much of the provider’s allotted system
    time has been consumed over a given
    floating window of time.
    
    When you send a job, it will be executed
    by the provider with the highest dynamic
    priority (or lowest fraction of allotted
    time used) at that moment.
    
    For more information, see the Fair-share
    queuing section.

global phase
    A phase applied to a statevector as a
    whole, .
    
    States related by a global phase are
    equivalent in quantum mechanics; global
    phases can be ignored.
    
    This is a consequence of the fact that
    only energy differences, as opposed to
    absolute values, matter in determining the
    dynamics of physical systems.
    
    See An aside on global phase in the Field
    Guide.

job
    A job ties together all of the relevant
    information about a computation on IBM
    Quantum: a quantum circuit, choice of
    backend, the choice of how many shots to
    execute on the backend, and the results
    upon executing the quantum circuit on the
    backend.

OpenQASM
    A quantum assembly language dialect (see
    QASM).
    
    For more information, see the OpenQASM
    code topic in the IBM Quantum Composer
    docs.

OpenQASM circuit
    Quantum circuit format generated by the
    Qiskit program.
    
    OpenQASM is the low-level language
    consumed by the Quantum Processing Unit
    (QPU).

phase
    See relative phase.

provider
    Access to the various services offered by
    IBM Quantum is controlled by the providers
    to which you are assigned.
    
    A provider is defined by a hierarchical
    organization of hub, group, and project.
    
    A hub is the top level of a given
    hierarchy (organization) and contains
    within it one or more groups.
    
    These groups are in turn populated with
    projects.
    
    The combination of hub/group/project is
    called a provider.
    
    Users can belong to more than one provider
    at any given time.

QASM
    QASM is an abbreviation for quantum
    assembly language.
    
    It is a set of text-based instructions to
    describe and visualize quantum circuits.
    
    IBM Quantum uses a dialect called
    OpenQASM; see more in the OpenQASM code
    topic in the IBM Quantum Composer docs.

Qiskit program
    Qiskit Python source code that describes
    the problem to solve, combining classical
    and quantum computation.
    
    It takes inputs from the users, makes the
    calculation, and returns the results.
    
    Each instance of a Qiskit program
    execution is similar to a computer process
    and is represented as a runtime job.

Qiskit program metadata
    The data that defines your program.
    
    Critical components are name, maximum
    execution time, version, backend
    requirements, and input/output parameters.

Qiskit Runtime
    Qiskit Runtime is a cloud service that
    runs the Qiskit program remotely as a
    process, passing the input from the user,
    and handling the connectivity between the
    Qiskit program, the user, and the quantum
    processing unit.
    
    You can repeat this multiple times with
    the same or different Qiskit programs.

Qiskit Runtime manager
    The main task of this component of the
    architecture is to prepare Qiskit Runtime,
    load the Qiskit programs, and supervise
    the correct execution.

quantum circuit
    A quantum circuit is a computational
    routine consisting of coherent quantum
    operations on quantum data, such as
    qubits, and concurrent real-time classical
    computation.
    
    It is an ordered sequence of quantum
    gates, measurements, and resets, which may
    be conditioned on and use data from the
    real-time classical computation.
    
    A set of quantum gates is said to be
    universal if any unitary transformation of
    the quantum data can be efficiently
    approximated arbitrarily well as a
    sequence of gates in the set.
    
    Any quantum program can be represented by
    a sequence of quantum circuits and non-
    concurrent classical computation.

quantum computer
    A quantum computer is a device capable of
    executing coherent controlled quantum
    dynamics.

quantum gate
    A quantum gate is a reversible (unitary)
    operation applied to one or more qubits.

Quantum processing unit (QPU)
    Part of the computational unit that
    performs the quantum computation.

quantum register
    See register.

qubit
    A qubit (pronounced “cue-bit” and short
    for quantum bit) is the basic unit of
    quantum information.
    
    A qubit consists of two-levels that can be
    expressed using the “computational basis”
    states , and .
    
    Unlike a classical bit, the state of a
    qubit can be a linear combination
    (superposition) of both computational
    states.
    
    Read more about the qubit in the Field
    guide in the IBM Quantum Composer docs.

register
    A quantum register is a collection of
    qubits on which gates and other operations
    act.
    
    A classical register consists of bits that
    can be written to and read within the
    coherence time of the quantum circuit.

relative phase
    A phase difference between components of a
    superposition state.
    
    By convention, the first term in a
    superposition is made to be real, and the
    remaining states have phase values
    relative to this, e.g., .

seed
    A seed is the value introduced into the
    algorithm that generates pseudorandom
    numbers.
    
    The simulator creates randomness by
    generating results based on the seed.

shot
    Because the measurement of a qubit in a
    superposition state is random — the
    outcome is sometimes 0 and sometimes 1 —
    you must repeat the measurement multiple
    times to determine the likelihood that a
    qubit is in a particular state.
    
    When performing the experiment, you will
    be asked how many shots, or executions, to
    run in order to determine the qubit state
    probabilities.

simulator
    For a quantum computer comprised of a
    small number of qubits , we can simulate
    its behavior on a classical computer.
    
    In general such a computation requires
    storing complex numbers, where is the
    number of qubits.
    
    For circuits composed solely of Clifford
    gates, or circuits generating quantum
    states that are weakly entangled, special
    simulation techniques allow for simulating
    a greater number of qubits.
    
    See the Simulators overview topic to learn
    about the IBM Quantum simulators.

statevector
    Any single realization of a quantum system
    can be described through a complex vector
    known as its statevector.
    
    In a gate-based quantum computer the state
    of qubits has elements; the dimension of
    the statevector grows exponentially with .

superposition
    A superposition in quantum mechanics is a
    weighted sum, or linear combination, of
    two or more quantum states.
    
    A quantum computer with qubits can exist
    in a superposition of all of its
    computational basis states , through .
    
    Exploiting this ability is fundamental to
    most quantum algorithms.

transpilation
    Transpilation is the process where a
    quantum circuit is transformed into a new
    quantum circuit that performs the same
    task, but is restructured to be compatible
    with the physical layout of a particular
    quantum system and, where possible,
    optimize its performance.

uncertainty principle
    In quantum physics, we cannot
    simultaneously know two non-commuting
    variables (like the position and momentum
    of a particle).
    
    This implies that a quantum system in a
    perfectly definite state can be certain
    under one measurement and completely
    random under another.
    
    Moreover, if a quantum system starts out
    in an arbitrary unknown state, no
    measurement can reveal complete
    information about that state; the more
    information the measurement reveals, the
    more the state is disturbed.
    
    This is a underlying principle of quantum
    cryptography.

universal fault-tolerant quantum computer
    A universal fault-tolerant quantum
    computer is the grand challenge of quantum
    computing.
    
    It is a device that can properly perform
    universal quantum operations using
    unreliable components.
    
    See also:
    - "universal quantum computer"

universal quantum computer
    A machine that can simulate an arbitrary
    quantum state from an arbitrary initial
    quantum state.
    
    See also:
    - "universal fault-tolerant quantum computer"

monogamy
    [property of entanglement]

maximal coordination
    [property of entanglement]
    
    Makes entanglement powerful.