The Treachery of Images
This is Not a Pipe
    Considered a Magritte masterpiece, a key
    Surrealist work, and an icon of modern
    art.
    
    A treatise on the impossibility of
    reconciling word, image, and object, it
    challenges the convention of identifying
    an image of an object as the thing itself.
    
    Presented in the style of an
    advertisement, with the neat cursive text
    forming a slogan-like caption under the
    image of the pipe, the painting prompts
    the viewer to ponder its conflicting
    messages.
    
    Magritte’s enigmatic use of text
    influenced a younger generation of
    artists, including John Baldessari, Marcel
    Broodthaers, Jasper Johns, Roy
    Lichtenstein, and Ed Ruscha.

Mise en abyme
The Droste effect
    Known in art as an example of mise en
    abyme, is the effect of a picture
    recursively appearing within itself, in a
    place where a similar picture would
    realistically be expected to appear.
    
    This produces a loop which mathematically
    could go on forever, but in practice only
    continues as far as the image's resolution
    allows.

    Las Meninas by Velázquez, used by Gide to
    demonstrate the technique of mise en abyme
    In Western art history, mise en abyme
    (French pronunciation: ​[miz ɑ̃n‿abim];
    also mise en abîme) is a formal technique
    of placing a copy of an image within
    itself, often in a way that suggests an
    infinitely recurring sequence.
    
    In film theory and literary theory, it
    refers to the technique of inserting a
    story within a story.
    
    The term is derived from heraldry and
    literally means "placed into abyss".
    
    It was first appropriated for modern
    criticism by the French author André Gide.
    
    A common sense of the phrase is the visual
    experience of standing between two
    mirrors, seeing as a result an infinite
    reproduction of one's image.
    
    Another is the Droste effect, in which a
    picture appears within itself, in a place
    where a similar picture would
    realistically be expected to appear.
    
    That is named after the 1904 Droste cocoa
    package, which depicts a woman holding a
    tray bearing a Droste cocoa package, which
    bears a smaller version of her image.

    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mise_en_abyme

Triple Self-Portrait
    A painting by Norman Rockwell.

    http://www.nrm.org/MT/text/TripleSelf.html