preconscious
    [#psychoanalysis]

    The loci preceding consciousness.
    
    Thoughts are preconscious when they are
    unconscious at a particular moment, but
    are not repressed.
    
    Therefore, preconscious thoughts are
    available for recall and easily 'capable
    of becoming conscious'—a phrase attributed
    by Sigmund Freud to Josef Breuer.

reality principle
    It seeks to please the id's drive in
    realistic ways that, in the long term,
    bring benefit, rather than grief.

pleasure principle
    The psychic force oriented to immediate
    gratification of impulse and desire.

oedipus complex
Œdipus complex
    A concept of psychoanalytic theory.
    
    Sigmund Freud introduced the concept in
    his book Interpretation of Dreams (1899)
    and coined the expression in his paper A
    Special Type of Choice of Object made by
    Men (1910).

    Thoughts:
    - I personally think it's wrong because it
      doesn't ring true at all to me.

id
    The id is the instinctual component of
    personality that is present at birth, and
    is the source of bodily needs and wants,
    emotional impulses and desires, especially
    aggression and the libido (sex drive).
    
    The id acts according to the pleasure
    principle — the psychic force oriented to
    immediate gratification of impulse and
    desire — defined by the avoidance of pain.
    
    Freud said that the Id is unconscious, by
    definition: It is the dark, inaccessible
    part of our personality, what little we
    know of it we have learned from our study
    of the dreamwork, and, of course, the
    construction of neurotic symptoms and most
    of that is of a negative character, and
    can be described only as a contrast to the
    ego.
    
    We approach the id with analogies: we call
    it a chaos, a cauldron full of seething
    excitations.
    
    It is filled with energy reaching it from
    the instincts, but it has no organization,
    produces no collective will, but only a
    striving to bring about the satisfaction
    of the instinctual needs subject to the
    observance of the pleasure principle.

ego
    The ego acts according to the reality
    principle; i.e., it seeks to please the
    id's drive in realistic ways that, in the
    long term, bring benefit, rather than
    grief.
    
    At the same time, Freud concedes that as
    the ego "attempts to mediate between id
    and reality, it is often obliged to cloak
    the (unconscious) commands of the id with
    its own preconscious rationalizations, to
    conceal the id's conflicts with reality,
    to profess...to be taking notice of
    reality even when the id has remained
    rigid and unyielding." The reality
    principle that operates the ego is a
    regulating mechanism that enables the
    individual to delay gratifying immediate
    needs and function effectively in the real
    world.
    
    An example would be to resist the urge to
    grab other people's belongings, but
    instead to purchase those items.

superego
    The ethical component of the personality
    and provides the moral standards by which
    the ego operates.
    
    The superego's criticisms, prohibitions,
    and inhibitions form a person's
    conscience, and its positive aspirations
    and ideals represent one's idealized self-
    image, or “ego ideal.” Sigmund Freud.

    An internal representation of the external
    social order, primarily inhibitory in its
    effects; Self-control.