computationalism
    A philosophy of mind theory stating that
    cognition is a form of computation.
    
    It is relevant to the simulation
    hypothesis in that it illustrates how a
    simulation could contain conscious
    subjects, as required by a "virtual
    people" simulation.
    
    For example, it is well known that
    physical systems can be simulated to some
    degree of accuracy.
    
    If computationalism is correct and if
    there is no problem in generating
    artificial consciousness or cognition, it
    would establish the theoretical
    possibility of a simulated reality.
    
    Nevertheless, the relationship between
    cognition and phenomenal qualia of
    consciousness is disputed.
    
    It is possible that consciousness requires
    a vital substrate that a computer cannot
    provide and that simulated people, while
    behaving appropriately, would be
    philosophical zombies.

philosophical zombie
p-zombie
    A thought experiment in philosophy of mind
    that imagines a hypothetical being that is
    physically identical to and
    indistinguishable from a normal person but
    does not have conscious experience,
    qualia, or sentience.

    Zombies in philosophy are imaginary
    creatures designed to illuminate problems
    about consciousness and its relation to
    the physical world.
    
    Unlike the ones in films or witchcraft,
    they are exactly like us in all physical
    respects but without conscious
    experiences: by definition there is
    ‘nothing it is like’ to be a zombie.
    
    Yet zombies behave just like us, and some
    even spend a lot of time discussing
    consciousness.

    https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/zombies/

    The unifying idea of the zombie is that of
    a human completely lacking conscious
    experience. It is possible to distinguish
    various zombie sub-types used in different
    thought experiments as follows:
    - A behavioral zombie that is behaviorally
      indistinguishable from a human.
    - A neurological zombie that has a human
      brain and is generally physiologically
      indistinguishable from a human.
    - A soulless zombie that lacks a soul.
    - An imperfect zombie or imp-zombie that
      is like a p-zombie but has slightly
      different behavior than a regular human.
      They are important in the context of the
      theory of evolution.
    - A zombie universe that is identical to
      our world in all physical ways, except
      no being in that world has qualia.
