word of knowledge                               
    [#Christianity]                             
                                                
    The word of knowledge is a spiritual gift   
    listed in 1 Corinthians 12:8.               
                                                
    It has been associated with the ability to  
    teach the faith, but also with forms of     
    revelation similar to prophecy.             
                                                
    It is closely related to another spiritual  
    gift, the word of wisdom.                   
                                                
    Throughout church history, this gift has    
    often been viewed as a teaching gift and    
    connected with being able to understand     
    scriptural truth.                           
                                                
    The Catholic Encyclopedia defines it as     
    "the grace of propounding the Faith         
    effectively, of bringing home to the minds  
    and hearts of the listener with Divine      
    persuasiveness, the hidden mysteries and    
    the moral precepts of Christianity".        
                                                
    Among Pentecostal and some Charismatic      
    Christians, the word of knowledge is often  
    defined as the ability of one person to     
    know what God is currently doing or         
    intends to do in the life of another        
    person.                                     
                                                
    It can also be defined as knowing the       
    secrets of another person's heart.          
                                                
    Through this revelation, it is believed     
    that God encourages the faith of the        
    believer to receive the healing or comfort  
    that God offers.                            
                                                
    For example, in a public gathering, a       
    person who claims to have the gift of       
    knowledge may describe a medical problem    
    (such as syphilis or trench foot) and ask   
    anyone suffering from the described         
    problem to identify themselves and receive  
    an effective prayer for healing.            
                                                
    According to this definition, the word of   
    knowledge is a form of revelation similar   
    to prophecy or a type of discernment.       