composability
    A system design principle that deals with
    the inter-relationships of components.
    
    A highly composable system provides
    components that can be selected and
    assembled in various combinations to
    satisfy specific user requirements.

    In information systems, the essential
    features that make a component composable
    are that it be:
    - self-contained (modular)
        It can be deployed independently –
        note that it may cooperate with other
        components, but dependent components
        are replaceable

    - stateless
        It treats each request as an
        independent transaction, unrelated to
        any previous request. Stateless is
        just one technique; managed state and
        transactional systems can also be
        composable, but with greater
        difficulty.

Pluggable authentication module
    A pluggable authentication module is a
    mechanism to integrate multiple low-level
    authentication schemes into a high-level
    application programming interface.
    
    It allows programs that rely on
    authentication to be written independent
    of the underlying authentication scheme.

Systems engineering
    An interdisciplinary field of engineering
    and engineering management that focuses on
    how to design, integrate, and manage
    complex systems over their life cycles.
    
    At its core, systems engineering utilizes
    systems thinking principles to organize
    this body of knowledge.

Hyperpersonalization
Hyperpersonalization Pattern
    [AI pattern]

    Treat each customer as an individual 

    ewwlinks +/"The Hyperpersonalization Pattern: Treat each customer as an individual" "https://www.forbes.com/sites/cognitiveworld/2019/09/17/the-seven-patterns-of-ai/"

    Using ML to develop a profile of each
    individual, and then having that profile
    learn and adapt over time for a wide
    variety of purposes including displaying
    relevant content, recommend relevant
    products, provide personalized
    recommendations and so on.
    
    The objective of this pattern is to treat
    each individual as an individual.

    Implementations of the
    hyperpersonalization particular pattern
    include creating personalized
    recommendations based off of browsing
    patterns and searches.
    
    A company that is currently utilizing a
    technology of this nature would be
    Netflix.
    
    They use AI to help recommend shows and
    movies to viewers based off of personal
    choices.
    
    Another example is Starbucks, who is using
    hyperpersonalization to connect with their
    customer base.
    
    The implementation of hyperpersonalization
    isn’t only limited to the marketing
    industry.
    
    It’s also popping up in industries such as
    finance, healthcare, or personalized
    fitness and wellness applications.
    
    For example, one common application of
    where hyperpersonalization can make a huge
    impact is in finance and loans.
    
    In the US the FICO credit score is used to
    lump individuals together who might
    otherwise have vastly different amounts of
    credit worthiness and penalizes groups of
    individuals who lack credit history.
    
    By moving away from using the traditional
    FICO score into something that treats each
    individual as an individual we might get
    more accurate pictures of individuals to
    see just how likely they are to pay back
    loans.

Autonomous Systems
Autonomous Systems Pattern
    [AI pattern]

    Reducing the need for manual labor

    ewwlinks +/"The Autonomous Systems Pattern Of AI" "https://www.forbes.com/sites/cognitiveworld/2020/05/30/the-autonomous-systems-pattern-of-ai/#5f0851fc6a6b"

    Autonomous systems are physical and
    virtual software and hardware systems that
    are able to accomplish a task, reach a
    goal, interact with their surroundings,
    and achieve an objective with minimal
    human involvement.
    
    Where the primary objective of hyper-
    personalization is to treat people as
    individuals, the goal of autonomous
    systems is to streamline things with as
    little human interaction as possible.
    
    The autonomous pattern requires ML
    capability that can independently perceive
    the outside world, predict the future
    behavior of external elements, and plan
    for how to deal with those changes.
    
    Obvious applications of this pattern
    include autonomous machines and vehicles
    of all sorts includes cars, boats, trains,
    airplanes, and more.
    
    However this pattern also includes
    autonomous systems including autonomous
    documentation and knowledge generation,
    autonomous business processes, and
    cognitive autonomation.
    
    These include systems that can operate in
    close proximity to humans, including
    preferential decision making.

Predictive Analytics
Predictive Analytics Pattern
    [AI pattern]

    ewwlinks +/"AI powered predictive analytics" "https://www.forbes.com/sites/cognitiveworld/2019/09/17/the-seven-patterns-of-ai/"

    Another pattern of AI is predictive
    analytics and decision support.
    
    This is defined as using ML and other
    cognitive approaches to understand how
    past or existing behaviors can help
    predict future outcomes or help humans
    make decisions about future outcomes based
    on these patterns.
    
    The objective of this pattern is helping
    humans make better decisions.
    
    Some uses of this pattern include assisted
    search and retrieval, predicting some
    future value for data, predicting
    behavior, predicting failure, assisted
    problem resolution, identifying and
    selecting best fit, identifying matches in
    data, optimization activities, giving
    advice, and intelligent navigation.
    
    The idea is that it helps to make better
    decisions, providing augmented
    intelligence capabilities.
    
    ML is what is helping to make the
    decision, adapting over time to provide
    better results.

Conversational
Conversational Pattern
    [AI pattern]

    Machines that can communicate as humans do

    ewwlinks +/"The Conversational Pattern: Machines that can communicate as humans do" "https://www.forbes.com/sites/cognitiveworld/2019/09/17/the-seven-patterns-of-ai/"

    Another pattern of AI is the
    conversational/human interaction pattern.
    
    This is defined as machines and humans
    interacting with each other through
    conversational forms of interaction and
    content across a variety of methods
    including voice, text, and image forms.
    
    This includes machine to human, human to
    machine, and back and forth human and
    machine interaction.
    
    The objective of this pattern is enabling
    machines to interact with humans how
    humans interact with each other.
    
    The most obvious examples of this include
    pattern include chatbots, voice
    assistants, and sentiment, mood and intent
    analysis.
    
    The point is that it is trying to
    understand the intent behind human
    interactions.
    
    It can also be used to facilitate human to
    human interaction through translation.
    
    The big thing to remember is that this
    pattern is used to create an easier way
    for humans to interact with each other and
    machines through methods that are natural
    or comfortable for humans.

Patterns and anomalies 
Patterns and anomalies pattern
    [AI pattern]

    Identifying Patterns and anomalies with
    AI.

    ML is particularly good at identifying
    patterns and finding anomalies or
    outliers.
    
    The “pattern-matching pattern” is one of
    the repeating approaches to AI projects
    that has seen wide and increasing
    adoption.
    
    The goal of the Patterns and Anomalies
    pattern of AI is to use ML and other
    cognitive approaches to learn patterns in
    the data and learn higher order
    connections between data points to see if
    it fits an existing pattern or if it is an
    outlier or anomaly.
    
    The object of this pattern is to find what
    fits with existing data and what doesn’t.
    
    Applications of this pattern include fraud
    and risk detection to see if things are
    out of the ordinary or expectations are
    happening.
    
    Another application is finding patterns
    among data, and helping to minimize or fix
    human mistakes.
    
    This pattern also includes predictive
    text, where it can analyze patterns in
    speech and grammar to help suggest words
    to choose to speed up the writing process.

Recognition
Recognition Pattern
    [AI pattern]

    Machines that can recognize the world.

    One of the big advancements in ML is the
    use of DL to greatly improve the accuracy
    of recognition-related tasks such as
    image, video, audio, and object
    recognition, classification, and
    identification.
    
    The recognition pattern is defined as
    using ML and other cognitive approaches to
    identify and determine objects or other
    desired things to be identified within
    image, video, audio, text, or other
    primarily unstructured data formarily.
    
    The objective of this pattern is to have
    machines identify and understand things.
    
    Examples include image and object
    recognition, facial recognition, audio and
    sound recognition, handwriting and text
    recognition, and gesture detection.
    
    This is a well developed pattern that
    computers are really good at and is fairly
    widely used.
    
    There are many companies who are investing
    heavily in recognition systems.
    
    In fact, one of the most well funded AI
    companies, Sensetime, is focused on facial
    recognition applications and the Chinese
    government is investing heavily in the use
    and adoption of this pattern.

Goal-Driven Systems
Goal-Driven Systems Pattern
    [AI pattern]

    Solving puzzles.

    Machines have proven to be particularly
    adept at learning the rules of games, and
    beating humans at their own games.
    
    In the past, machines have easily
    conquered the games of checkers, chess,
    and finding solutions to mazes.
    
    Through the power of RL and much more
    advanced computation capabilities,
    machines are now able to win at Go, multi-
    player games such as DoTA, and much more
    complicated games.
    
    Alpha Go and Alpha Zero were created by
    Google’s DeepMind division under the
    theory that through goals, computers could
    learn anything through game play.
    
    Games are just the beginning to solutions
    that could potentially even lead to
    breakthroughs in solving long-hoped for
    goals in Artificial General Intelligence
    (AGI).
    
    Games are not the only possibility for
    goal-driven systems.
    
    With the power of RL and other ML
    techniques, organizations can apply ML and
    other cognitive approaches to give their
    systems the ability to learn through trial
    and error.
    
    This is useful for any situation where you
    want to have the system find the optimal
    solution to a problem.
    
    The main learning approach for this
    pattern is through RL.
    
    Examples in the pattern can include game
    playing, resource optimization, iterative
    problem solving, and bidding and real-time
    auctions.
    
    While the goal-driven systems pattern is
    not yet as widely implemented as some of
    the other patterns, it is gaining rapid
    adoption.
