dynamic and formal equivalence
    The terms dynamic equivalence and formal
    equivalence, coined by Eugene Nida, are
    associated with two dissimilar translation
    approaches that are employed to achieve
    different levels of literalness between
    the source text and the target text, as
    evidenced in biblical translation.

    The two have been understood basically,
    with dynamic equivalence as sense-for-
    sense translation (translating the
    meanings of phrases or whole sentences)
    with readability in mind, and with formal
    equivalence as word-for-word translation
    (translating the meanings of words and
    phrases in a more literal way), keeping
    literal fidelity.

dynamic equivalence
functional equivalence
    According to Eugene Nida, dynamic
    equivalence, the term as he originally
    coined, is the "quality of a translation
    in which the message of the original text
    has been so transported into the receptor
    language that the response of the receptor
    is essentially like that of the original
    receptors." The desire is that the reader
    of both languages would understand the
    meanings of the text in a similar fashion.
    
    In later years, Nida distanced himself
    from the term "dynamic equivalence" and
    preferred the term "functional
    equivalence".
    
    What the term "functional equivalence"
    suggests is not just that the equivalence
    is between the function of the source text
    in the source culture and the function of
    the target text (translation) in the
    target culture, but that "function" can be
    thought of as a property of the text.
    
    It is possible to associate functional
    equivalence with how people interact in
    cultures.

formal equivalence
    Formal equivalence approach tends to
    emphasize fidelity to the lexical details
    and grammatical structure of the original
    language, whereas dynamic equivalence
    tends to employ a more natural rendering
    but with less literal accuracy.

    Formal equivalence is a literal, word-for-
    word translation.
    
    The goal is to stay as close to the
    original text as possible.
    
    The translation will preserve the lexical
    details, grammatical structure,
    vocabulary, and syntax of the source text.

reverse formal equivalence
    A more recent methodology being undertaken
    with the Real Bible Translation (RBT)
    project takes a reverse formal equivalence
    approach that could be thought of as
    treating English as the "source" and the
    ancient Hebrew lexical patterns and
    morphemes as the "target" with the goal of
    immersing the modern reader into ancient
    thought patterns.
    
    With this approach a Hebrew word token
    "takes in" an English one rather than the
    other way around.

