Missionary Economist 

 But whatever were gains to me I now consider loss for the sake of Christ. What is more, I 
consider everything a loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, 
for whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them garbage, that I may gain Christ. 

(Philippians 3:7, 8) 

If you have ever wondered if the economic principles that govern business practices are 
compatible with the biblical principles that govern our personal practices, consider the fact 
that Paul uses an opportunity-cost argument in Philippians 3:7-8. 

In economics, an opportunity cost is the value of an opportunity passed up, or foregone. For 
example, if your job pays $30 per hour but you could get a job that would pay $45 per hour 
for the same effort (and all other things being equal), then you are giving up (it is costing 
you) $15 per hour to work for your current employer. That $15 per hour is your opportunity 
cost. 

If we define an economy as “a system that sets values for the utilisation of resources,” then 
it is obvious that Paul must be talking about another economy entirely, one that assigns 
different values to both resources and rewards – same stuff, different values. 

Consider the words “profit,” “loss,” “garbage,” “gain” in Philippians 3:7-8. Paul is saying that 
there are many more things in this life that are profitable – they return more than they cost 
in human economy terms – but compared with alternative, “the surpassing worth of 
knowing Christ Jesus,” the profit came up short. Both returns are on the positive side of the 
ledger, but in God’s economy, there is a greater return for the same effort. 

I am in the middle of a job search and am fortunate to have a choice between two good 
options. One option means more money, prestige and opportunities for more of both in the 
future, which I could certainly use to advance the cause of Christ, but it also means a more 
single-minder focus on my career for the next few years. The other option would still 
surpass my material needs but may produce a greater gain according to God’s value. Faced 
with a decision between two profitable options, it is a comfort to know that the Bible has 
advice for my economic decisions. As I consider Paul’s lesson in economics, I pray that God 
will reveal His greater value to me. 

James 2:17 says that all good gifts come from God, even our jobs and the rewards it brings. 
Recognise the source of those gifts and seek to know what He would have you do with 
them. Remember that there’s an opportunity cost to pursuing the things of this world. God 
has a different economy. Hear it in the Sermon on the Mount. Read it in Paul’s letters. See it 
in Christ’s life. And experience it in your own. 

Randy Raggio 

Recognise God’s economic measurement of your job and the rewards it brings. 

Point To Ponder 

Source: Devotional Ventures 

 
 
 
 
 
