                  Acts of Kindness Charitable Trust          

Table Host Instructions 

At your table you will find a bag situated at the “Table Host Reserved position” containing: 

“Hello My name is” sticker name tags for your guests 

• 
•  Vivid & Biro/Ball-point pen 
•  Note for recording any guest special meal requirements 
•  Rubbish bag  
•  Special meal signs 
•  Feedback Forms 

Key responsibilities: 

•  Greet your guests as they are ushered to your table and introduce yourself. Ask them their 

first name and write a name tag sticker and hand to them to put on themselves. 
•  Special meals -             (please ask your guests if they require a vegetarian meal). 

The two main meal options are: 
1.  Full meal - seasonal vegetables served with both roast lamb & roast chicken 
2.  Vegetarian option. Seasonal vegetables with Vegetarian Lasagne (which is also gluten 

free and vegan).  

Gluten free Christmas puddings are available on request. Limited number available. 

Record on the special meal note if you require any vegetarian meals or gluten free christmas 
pudding to be served to your table and the number required. Place a special meal sign in 
front of the guest/s requiring the meal (place where the top edge of the dinner plate would 
be). Your completed note will be collected from you by 12:05pm.   If you do not require any 
special meals, please still complete the note, and write “no special meals needed” - together 
with your table number on it.  

•  Drinks – please refresh as needed.  You can get additional bottles from either of the drink 

stations which are situated outside the back of the hall on the left and right-hand sides.  We 
do have a supply of sugar-free lemonade if requested. Please try to keep your table tidy - 
please remove any rubbish from your table and put in bag to stow underneath your table. 
Please also place your empty drink bottles underneath your table. 

•  Tea & Coffee will be available at the drinks stations after dessert is served.  Please ask your 
guests what they would like and serve them as required. Please be very careful carrying hot 
drinks to the table, you must have lids on the cups and if you are carrying more than 2 cups 
you must use a cup holder carrier. 

•  Please clear plates from your table, but only after all guests at your table have finished 

eating. Take the dirty dishes to the collection point located down a small set of stairs to the 
left of the stage.  If you require assistance with this, please ask a Matre’d.  
If any of your guests (or you) want to complete a feedback form, you will find these in your 
table host pack. Hand these to your guests. Place in the box in the foyer when completed. 

• 

Timeline 
11.30am      Doors open to public  
12.15pm      Main course served followed by dessert.  Meal service starts at table 1 so depending on 
what table you have will determine when you are served.  12.15 is a target and may be delayed.  
2.30pm    Guests will be thanked for coming and farewelled 

There will be entertainment at various times during the event. 
We do need to clear the tables/hall when finished so if you could help with this it would be 
appreciated. Please do not put items such as menu’s, song sheets, Table Host signs etc in the 
rubbish as we can reuse if they are still in good condition. 
Thank you for being a Table Host, from previous feedback our guests do like having a Host which 
helps to ensure they have an enjoyable time and to look after their needs. 

 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                             
 
 
 
 
           
 
                                                                                                                  
 
 
 
                
