                     CAPTAIN BIBLE
                    SPECIAL EDITION

<<< Ordering >>>

Captain Bible in Dome of Darkness, Special Edition
(C) 1994 Bridgestone Multimedia Group.  All rights reserved.
Captain Bible is a trademark of Bridgestone Multimedia Group.
This product is not public domain.  However, we encourage
you to share it with a friend.  Permission is granted for
you to copy the CAPBIBLE.EXE program as long as you do not
alter the files.

The full version has seven times as many levels, three levels
of difficulty, an end game with a giant robot, parental
control mechanisms (translation, combat, subject),
and much more.

To order the Full Version
call 1-800-507-0008: Mention "Special Edition".
Bridgestone Multimedia Group,
1979 Palomar Oaks Way, Carlsbad, CA 92009.
619-431-9888, 619-431-0489 (FAX)


<<< The Story of Captain Bible in Dome of Darkness >>>

It was a quiet afternoon in the city.  The new weather control 
system was about to be put into operation, and the whole city
system seemed to be running smoother than ever.  It had been
many months since the city council had met because there just
didn't seem to be any problems.  Yes, there had been rumors that
other cities were under attack, but it had been decades since
anything had happened here.  In fact, in that last meeting, the
council had voted to dismantle the city's perimeter guard
system, leaving only the Unibot functioning.  Oddly enough, that
was the first meeting that they hadn't bothered to open with
prayer.

The trouble started with a sort of a whisper, hardly noticeable,
as a sort of general unease.  At first, everyone just assumed
that they were in a bad mood and didn't worry about it.  But then,
people started thinking things that they had never thought before,
like "Does God really care?" or "I wonder if it's really wrong
to..."  Just as people were starting to get alarmed, the sky went
pitch black!  What everyone had thought was the weather control
tower was actually a Tower of Deception!  The city had been
trapped inside an anti-truth field, which was shutting out even
the natural truth of God's creation.  The city had been betrayed
by a traitor who was long gone.  They found out later that the
designer in charge of the weather system had been in the employ
of the enemy for years, and had installed the field generator
without anyone knowing.  As the anti-truth field took hold of
the citizens, deception cybers began roaming the city at will,
capturing the citizens and brainwashing them with their lies.
The city council quickly met to try to prevent the disaster,
but it was too late!  When the council left the council chamber,
they found that the cybers had captured all the other citizens
of the city.  It was decided that one council member would stay
in each of the seven main buildings to wait for help.  Help
eventually did come in the form of the Bible Corps: the rescue
organization dedicated to helping those who are overcome by the
enemy.  They tried in vain to break through the Dome of Darkness
covering the city, and were only able to punch a small hole
through it.  They would have lost hope of freeing the city except
for one last plan that called for the help of their greatest
champion....            CAPTAIN BIBLE!


Captain Bible is a super hero with a difference!  His power
comes from the Bible.  He has no special powers of his own, but
is able to overcome all the deceptions and lies of darkness
through the skillful application of the Word of God.  Captain
Bible's mission is to be teleported into the city and knock out
the Tower of Deception which is generating the dome.  He must
use the Unibot to destroy the Tower.  However, he needs the help
of seven people (the council members) to operate the Unibot.  He
first has to rescue them, for by now they must be deceived. 
Along the way, Captain Bible will encounter many of the
deception cybers which will try to block his path.  Each cyber
is guarded by a lie, and it takes just the right verse from his
computer Bible to get past that lie so that it can be attacked. 
Then Captain Bible still has to find each cyber's weak point in
order to successfully combat and destroy it.  Unfortunately, the
process of teleportation wipes out Captain Bible's computer
Bible clear of all scriptures!  Anticipating this, the Bible
Corps has already transported scripture stations into the city,
where Captain Bible can re-charge his computer Bible. 
Fortunately, Captain Bible's faith and prayer will get him
through these challenges if you help him meaningfully apply the
Bible.  In this Special Edition, you will go with Captain Bible
as he battles through one building to release the victim trapped
there.


<<< Installing and Starting Captain Bible >>>

> Sound and Music Configuration - Setsound
To configure (or re-configure) the game for sound and music, run
Setsound from the directory where the program files were
installed.  Run Setsound from DOS not Windows.

Warning: It is important to select the correct name of your
sound card to choose a sound card option. If you choose the
wrong card, you could have trouble starting the game. You would
then have to run Setsound again to reset the music and sound. If
you cannot find your sound card listed in Setsound, try "Sound
Blaster" or "Sound Blaster clone." If Setsound prompts you for
whether you want to auto-detect for Sound Blaster, you should
normally type "Y."  Setsound will ask you about your sound card
twice: once for digitized sound, and once for music (MIDI).

> Starting the Game
These instructions pertain to playing the game from a DOS
prompt. To start the game in Windows you will click on the
Captain Bible icon in Windows ( see "Windows Instructions").
To play the game, you must be in the proper directory.
At the DOS prompt, type CBSE and press ENTER.


> Solving Memory Problems
If you are low on Conventional Memory Free (this is not likely,
since Captain Bible takes only 500K), you should check to see if
you have any unnecessary TSR's in your system. TSR's are
programs that load into memory and wait in the background, such
as pop-up programs, network drivers, etc.

If the removal of TSR's doesn't solve the problem, you can save
about 26K of conventional memory by eliminating sound from
Captain Bible. The game will then use less memory. To eliminate
sound, delete the file SOUND.1 (example: DEL SOUND.1 Press
Enter) from the directory where you installed the program
files. You can also save about 31K of memory by deleting music
from Captain Bible. Delete the file Sound.2 to eliminate music.

You can free up about 270K of hard drive space by deleting the
file: CBSEDRV.EXE  Warning: Be sure you have configured the sound
and music for your sound card before you delete this file.
Otherwise, you will need to run the orginal CAPBIBLE.EXE to unpack
the files again.


> Windows Instructions
After installing Captain Bible Special Edition under DOS, follow
these instructions to set up the program to run under Windows.
The on-line Help in Windows may also be useful.

1. Start Windows.

2. Click on (select) the Windows Group (e.g. Games) where you
wish to place the Captain Bible icon.

3. Click on the File menu item in the Windows Program Manager
and click on (select) New.

4. You should have a dialog box named "New Program Object."  Make
sure that  "Program Item" is selected.  Click on OK.

5. You should now have a dialog box named "Program Item
Properties."  Click on the text box to the right of "Command
Line:." Enter the following text: C:\CAPBIBLE\CBSE.PIF
DO NOT PRESS ENTER! (Substitute your path if other than
C:\CAPBIBLE.)

6. Click on Change Icon. If it tells you something about "No
icons available" just click on OK. 

7. You should now have a dialog box named "Change Icon" Click
on the text box to the right of "File Name:"  Backspace and/or
Delete several times to clear anything that may be in that box
and then type: C:\CAPBIBLE\CBSE.ICO (press ENTER). (Remember to
substitute your path if other than C:\CAPBIBLE.) You should see
the Captain Bible icon appear.

8. If you are using Windows 3.1, click on "OK" and go to step 10.

9. If you are using Windows 3.0, you should now be back in
"Program Item Properties". Click on the text box to the right of
"Description:" and enter: Captain Bible Special Edition (press
ENTER). You should now be done.

10. Click on "OK." You should now be done.

For music and sound, be sure you run Setsound from the DOS
prompt.  See "Sound and Music Configuration - Setsound."

Do not use Digitized sound on Internal Speaker mode when using
the game in Windows: it may cause Windows to hang.


> Troubleshooting - Windows and Sound
Under certain configurations of Microsoft Windows (3.1) in 386
Enhanced Mode, you may experience some difficulties in running
DOS programs that use sound from Windows. These problems are
related to the interaction between Windows and your sound card.
They are not dependent on the specific program that you run,
except to the extent of how much of the sound hardware it uses
(Music, Sound Effects, etc). If you do experience difficulty,
the quickest way to solve the problem is to run Windows in
standard mode. To do this, exit Windows and type win/s (Press
Enter). You should find that other DOS sound programs will now
run from Windows also. However, if you need to run Windows in
386 Enhanced mode, here are some hints:

1. If Windows complains about DMABufferSize, follow its
directions, but use the number 100 for DMABufferSize.

2. If Windows complains that the sound is in use by another
application, it may mean that your Windows WAVE driver needs to
be removed or reconfigured.

3. If your program runs but makes no sound, you may have a
conflict between Windows and your sound card. This problem could
affect DOS programs or Windows programs. Refer to your sound
card manual for assistance.

> Objective of the Game
Destroy deception cybers and successfully navigate other obstacles
along the way.  Use the computer Bible to select the right verses
to accomplish the mission. Pick up verses at the Scripture
stations.  Fight through one building, find the victim, and help
him see the Truth!

In the Full Version, you must rescue seven people from seven
buildings.  Then with the help of those seven people, you use the
giant Unibot to defeat the Tower of Deception.


<<< Game Controls >>>

Using a mouse, move the cursor around the screen. You will see
icons (visual signs) appearing. Click the left mouse button to
choose the option represented by an icon.

Using a keyboard, the cursor keys move Captain Bible. The space
bar cycles through any available temporary icons. (For example,
if you are by a Scripture station, the space bar may display the
icon "Get Verse".) Press Enter to choose the option. The first
letter of the option will often work as well. (Example: O will
turn OFF the computer Bible.)


<<< Understanding the Screen Icons >>>

At the top of the screen you will see certain icons such as
shown on the screen below. Click on an icon to activate it.
(Keyboard commands for selecting each icon are shown next to the
icons below.)

> Computer Bible (Keyboard:F1)
If there are verses in the computer Bible, you may click on the
verse reference on the left to select the verse. The text of the
verse will then appear on the right. The verses will be listed
in Bible order. If Apply is lit, you may  select it to apply the
verse. Select Off to exit. If you have more verses than can be
displayed on the screen at one time, an arrow key will be lit.
Select the "Page Up" and "Page Down" arrows to display more
verses.  (Using the keyboard, you may use the cursor arrow keys
to select among the verses, the "Page Up" key and "Page 
Down" keys to show any verses that do not display on a single
screen, the "O" or "Esc" keys for Off, and the "A" or "Enter"
keys for Apply.)

> Map (Keyboard:F2)
Displays a map. If Captain Bible is inside a building, the map
shows the building. Explored areas are in gold, unexplored in
grey. 
Scripture stations are shown as dots at intersections - gold if
the Scripture has been obtained, gray if not. If you move the
cursor over the scripture station dot or communications room,
the reference to the verse will be shown (but not the text of
the verse).
After they have been explored, the rooms show "P" for prayer
room, "J" for jump tunnel, "T" for trap, "C" for communications,
and "V" for victim. (The Special Edition does not have all of
these room types)

> Faith (Keyboard:F3)
Displays the level of Captain Bible's faith. As the icon changes
color ("drains" from top to bottom), it indicates the level of
the remaining faith. Select the icon to show the numerical
percentage of remaining faith. Click on "Continue" to return to
the normal display. (With the keyboard, press Enter.) Faith is
restored in the prayer rooms.

> Sword (Keyboard:F4)
Having this icon indicates that Captain Bible will fight better
and hit harder in combat. Select the icon for explanation. Click
on "continue" to return to the normal display. (With the
keyboard, press Enter.) The Sword is obtained in the prayer room.

> Shield (Keyboard:F5)
Having this icon indicates that Captain Bible will be better
able to protect himself in combat, jump tunnels, trap rooms,
etc. Select the icon for explanation. Click on "continue" to
return to the normal display. (With the keyboard, press Enter.)
The Shield is obtained in the prayer room.

> No Trap (Keyboard:F6)
Having this icon indicates that Captain Bible has the ability to
discern trap rooms. Trap room doors will automatically flash
green when Captain Bible approaches them. Select the icon for
explanation. Click on "Continue" to return to the  normal
display. (With the keyboard, press Enter.) The No Trap
capability is obtained in the prayer room.

> Candle (Keyboard:F7)
Having this icon indicates that the Lord will light the path
before Captain Bible. Some parts of the halls are dark. With the
Candle, they will automatically light up as entered. Select the
icon for explanation. Click on "Continue" to return to the
normal display. (With the keyboard, press Enter.)  The Candle is
obtained in the prayer room. 


> Flight (Keyboard:F8)
Having this icon indicates that Captain Bible has the power of
flight in certain places. Select the icon for explanation. Click
on "Continue" to return to the normal display. (With the
keyboard, press Enter.) Flight capability is obtained in the
prayer room.  Flight is not implemented in this Special Edition.


<<< Game Options Esc >>

Select the disk icon to obtain a menu of game controls. (With the
keyboard, press Esc.)

Move the mouse to scroll the options and click the left mouse
button to select a desired choice. (With the keyboard, use the
cursor arrow keys to scroll the options and press Enter to
select one.) 

> Quit
Exit to DOS without saving the game. It will prompt you to be
sure!

> Save Game
Save the current game to disk. Click on one of the lines and
type in a name for  your game. When you are done, press Enter to
save the current game.
In some situations, such as conversations, the game will be
saved starting at the beginning of the current scene.
Quick Save:
Press F10 at any time during the game to save the current game
without going through any menus; press F9 to load from the Quick
Save. Quick Save is separate from other ways to save and load
games. 

> Load Game
Load one of the saved games. Select the title of the game that
you want to load. If the most recent game was saved under the
list of games, it is indicated by << after the title. In some
situations, such as a conversation, it will load from the
beginning of the scene. 

> New Game
Start the game from the beginning. A prompt will ask you if you
are sure!

> Translation 	
Indicates the current translation. Select the menu item to cycle
through the available translations. You will not have these
options if you restricted the game during installation. 

> Music On/Off
Indicates whether music is turned On or Off. Select the menu
item to toggle between On and Off. Note: Installation defaults
to no music. You must run Setsound (See "Sound and Music -
Setsound") to configure the program for music.  If music is not
operating properly or you need to configure the game to run with
your sound board, you may need to run Setsound. 

> Sound Effects On/Off
Indicates whether the sound effects are turned On or Off. Click
on the menu item to toggle between On and Off. Note:
Installation defaults to no sound. You must run Setsound (see
"Sound and Music - Setsound") to configure the program for
sound.  If sound effects are not operating properly or you need
to configure the game to run with your sound board, you may need
to run Setsound. 

> Automatic Combat On/Off
Indicates whether you are in automatic or manual combat during
combat with cybers and while in the jump tunnels. Select the
menu item to toggle between On and Off. You can switch between
automatic and manual combat at anytime when the Game Options
icon is available, except in the middle of combat or the jump
tunnels.  In Automatic Combat mode, there is no manual skill
involved, but losing or winning is picked randomly.

> Continue 
Go on with the game. Select to exit the Game Options menu.


<<< Conversation Screens >>>

Captain Bible will sometimes have a dialog with other people. If
text is displayed, you may use your mouse to move the cursor
until you see the "Continue" icon. Click to continue (With the
keyboard, press Enter.) 

Captain Bible will often have options as to what to say. With
the mouse, move the cursor over the text box until the desired
text is highlighted. Click to choose that text. (with keyboard,
use the cursor arrow keys to select among text options. Press
Enter to choose the text.) 

Sometimes the computer Bible will open up in the middle of a
conversation. This indicates that Captain Bible is able to quote
a Bible verse to the person with whom he is speaking. Select a
verse, then click on Apply. (Keyboard users press the A or Enter
button.)


<<< Game Actions >>>

During the game you will have a number of options. See "Game
Controls" for instructions on how to select an option. You can
learn about some of the action options below.

> GET VERSE
Select "GET VERSE" for Captain Bible to go to the Scripture
station and pick up the Bible verse. You will see the verse
displayed on the screen. (Select Continue to return to the
hallway.)

> CONFRONT CYBER
Select "CONFRONT CYBER" for Captain Bible to confront the cyber
lie of the deception cyber. The cyber lie will be displayed. The
computer Bible will open to allow you to choose a verse to apply.
Select "APPLY" to apply the verse to the Cyber Lie and combat the
cyber. If you select a verse that is close, but not quite right,
there will be no penalty. However, if you apply a totally wrong
verse, Captain Bible will lose some faith. Select "OFF" before
applying a verse to retreat with no penalty.

> Combat
After successfully defeating a cyber lie, Captain Bible can
battle the cyber. 
In manual combat (Automatic Combat Off on the Disk options) you
have three icons from which to select during a battle: Attack
("A" key), Defend ("D" key), and Retreat ("R" key). Attack a
cyber when it is vulnerable.  Defend when it is about to hit you.
When a cyber is attacked successfully, it will react, but it may
take several hits to kill it. 
In Automatic Combat you have two icons: Combat ("C" key) and
Retreat ("R" key). The outcome of the combat is determined
randomly; Captain Bible may be hurt or unhurt, the cyber
may be destroyed or not.

> Locked Doors
Some doors will have a lock on them. To unlock a door, select
"UNLOCK".  You will then need to match a true statement with the
appropriate Bible verse.


<<< Cyber Hints >>>

Macho Cyber - It is the meanest. Its punches are deadly, and
it's hard to kill. Hit it when its eye is open.

Mantis Cyber - It is deadly with the flame throwers, but it
isn't too hard to kill. Hit it when both arms are lowered.

Armored Cyber - It takes a licking but keeps on ticking. Hit it
when its lid is open.

Snake Cyber - Don't get hypnotized by its weaving back and
forth. Hit it when it pauses in the lower right corner. 

Leech Cyber - It leeches on top of Scripture stations. Hit it
when its lid is open. 

Zapper Cyber - You can walk right under it in the hallways, but
it gives you a real zap. If you defeat a zapper cyber in combat,
all of your faith is restored. The zapper cybers draw faith away
from their victims, and this faith is released when the zapper
cyber is destroyed.  There are no Zapper Cybers in this Special
Edition.

Spider Cyber - It sometimes drops behind you when you pass under
it. Hit it at the top of its jump.

Annoy Cyber - You'll only see this one outside. It flies around
you and wipes out all of the verses. It's a coward, so it
doesn't stay around long enough for combat.  There is no Annoy
Cyber in this Special Edition.

<<< Rooms >>>

From the hallways, Captain Bible may enter a number of different
rooms or other places.

> Trap Room
Some rooms have a cyber in them. You need to apply the correct
verse to confront the lie and escape the room without Captain
Bible being hurt. If you apply a verse that is nearly correct,
you will be given another chance.

> Jump Tunnel
The jump tunnel takes Captain Bible to a different part of the
building. In manual combat mode (Automatic Combat Off), you need
to move left or right ( move the mouse left or right or use the
arrow keys) to avoid oncoming cybers. In Automatic Combat, you
cannot control Captain Bible.  The Jump Tunnel is not implemented
in this Special Edition.

> Prayer Room
In the prayer rooms, Captain Bible can have his faith restored
or get a powerup. To obtain a powerup, ask for it, then apply
the  correct verse. If the wrong verse is applied, Captain Bible
is not hurt.

> Victim Room
In each building there is one victim room. Captain Bible needs
to talk with the victim and apply several verses to help the
victim see the truth. Once the victim sees the truth, he or she
will help Captain Bible in the Unibot. In the first building,
the victim will provide the verse that Captain Bible needs to
get to the rest of the buildings. In the other buildings,
Captain Bible is returned to the entrance of the building once
the victim has been rescued. 

> Communications Room
In the communications rooms, Captain Bible talks to the victims
who have been rescued. These people will mention a verse that he
or she was reading and ask about its meaning, suggesting several
alternatives. If you choose the correct one, the person will
apply it and transfer it to the computer Bible. If you choose
the wrong one or do not choose any verse, Captain Bible will
lose some faith. In a given communications room, the person will
always discuss the same verse.


<<< Game Hints >>>

Pause the game by clicking on the floppy disk icon at the top of
the screen. Click on Continue to restart.

Use the F10 key (see "Quick Save") often to save the game. F9
loads the saved game.

Use the map frequently; you can figure out where to go next by
seeing which area is lit up on the map. You can also tell which
rooms are communications rooms.

Watch the Faith meter. Keep track of the prayer room locations
for restoring Faith.

If Confront Cyber is chosen, there is no assurance that Captain
Bible has the required Bible verse. Carefully evaluate whether a
particular verse really applies to the lie or is just dealing
with the same subject matter. Select OFF to exit the
confrontation if Captain Bible doesn't have the right verse.
There is no penalty for choosing OFF.

Watch out for variations in the cybers. Learn the weaknesses of
each cyber. Each has a moment of vulnerability.

In combat, it is faster to use the A key (Attack) and the D key
(Defend) than the mouse.

Locks show statements that are not necessarily paraphrases of
the correct verse. However, the statements are directly
supported by the verse.


<<< Copyrights >>>

Captain Bible in Dome of Darkness, Special Edition
(C) 1994 Bridgestone Multimedia Group.  All rights reserved.
Captain Bible is a trademark of Bridgestone Multimedia Group.

Scripture taken from the HOLY BIBLE, NEW INTERNATIONAL VERSION(R).
NIV(R).  Copyright(C) 1973, 1978, 1984 by International Bible
Society.  Used by permission of Zondervan Publishing House.
All rights reserved.

Scripture verses are taken from The Living Bible (C) 1971.
Used by permission of Tyndale House Publishers, Inc.,
Wheaton, IL 60189.  All rights reserved.

Scripture text is from the Revised Standard Version of the Bible,
copyright 1946, 1952, 1971 by the Division of Christian Education
of the National Council of the Churches of Christ in the USA.
Used by permission.

