Thoughts on Faith and Judgement

This document has been a work in progress. I have been born-again and have
done my own Bible study to be taught and be corrected by the word of God, and
I'm feeling confident with what I have written here, if I have said anything
in error I pray that it would be corrected. I'm trying to speak the truth in
mercy. This document shows my current understanding at the time of writing.
I'm not judging people. This is just a Bible study. I have just wanted to
read the Bible for myself to understand and apply the Scriptures, come into
agreement with God's Truth and share my understanding it with others for
accountability purposes, and also affirm truth as I am renewed in mind by it.
I don't presume to be always right. Also, just because I have quoted some
pastors and authors does not mean that I affirm everything they have ever
said, but I have selected quotes which I have found to be relevant and
helpful. I want to let the Bible smash bad theology. I've also added parts of
my own testimony. It's my hope that this Bible study helps other people to
come to the obedience of faith in God through Jesus Christ.

  Acts 20:25-32 - And now, behold, I know that none of you among whom I have
  gone about proclaiming the kingdom will see my face again. Therefore I
  testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all of you, for
  I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. Pay
  careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy
  Spirit has made you overseers, to care for the church of God, which he
  obtained with his own blood. I know that after my departure fierce wolves
  will come in among you, not sparing the flock ; and from among your own
  selves will arise men speaking twisted things, to draw away the disciples
  after them. Therefore be alert, remembering that for three years I did not
  cease night or day to admonish everyone with tears. And now I commend you
  to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to
  give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. (ESV)

  Psalms 119:105 - Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
  (ESV)

  Job 42:7 - After the LORD had spoken these words to Job, the LORD said to
  Eliphaz the Temanite: My anger burns against you and against your two
  friends, for you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job
  has. (ESV)

We are accountable to our Lord Jesus Christ for our actions and beliefs
youtube.com: Isn't Veganism Closer to God's Original Design?

  Romans 14:4 - Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is
  before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for
  the Lord is able to make him stand. (ESV)

This is a short preview of where I'm at with my theology. I don't claim to
know everything or to have perfect theology:

|  If we trust God, believing on Yeshua's (Jesus's) name, it's typically the
|  initial act of obedience of a Christian, Jesus having commanded us to trust
|  Him, and believe Him, especialy concerning His name as Son of God, Christ,
|  Messiah as foretold by the prophets, and we are sealed by the Holy Spirit when
|  we do this.
| 
|      Acts 10:43 - To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who
|      believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name.
|      (ESV)
|  
|   Then we call on Jesus to save us, (usually out of desperation).
|   Noone calls on a law to save them. We call on Jesus to save us.
|   This is another act of obedience to the Gospel.
|  
|       Ephesians 1:7-12 - In him we have redemption through his blood, the
|       forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which
|       he lavished upon us, in all wisdom and insight making known to us the
|       mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in
|       Christ as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him,
|       things in heaven and things on earth.
|       In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according
|       to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his
|       will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the
|       praise of his glory.
|       (ESV)
|  
|   Trust, obedience, belief and faith are not really separate things when it
|   comes to believing the Word of God in the heart, and if a person has put their
|   trust in Jesus then they've done something which is in the will of God.
|  
|   Our faith and obedience are supposed to continue as we are sanctified and are
|   taught by Christ, especially by the teachings He taught while walking the
|   earth even before His crucifixion.
|  
|   Trust, belief and obedience, and even agape and knowledge of God when they are
|   settled in the heart is what God sees and God is our justifier, and He
|   justifies the one who puts their faith/trust in Jesus Christ, and we continue
|   trusting Him so we are teachable by Him - we accept His sayings and believe Him
|   and are corrected by Him.
|  
|   We believe by faith that we are justified by the blood of Jesus and just get
|   to serving God with agape love proceeding from a good conscience having
|   believed the Gospel and placed our faith in Christ.
|  
|   Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, He was buried, He was
|   raised on the third day according to the Scriptures, and He appeared to many
|   eye-witnesses.
|  
|   In this way did God agape love (treasure/value) the world, that He gave His
|   Only-Begotten Son that everyone who is trusting/believing in Him may not
|   perish, but may have life everlasting which is to be reconciled to our Creator
|   and His Son, in relationship with God forever, never perishing nor being cut
|   off from our source of life and all that is good.
|  
|   Agape love is a treasuring/valuing/preserving/compassion love and God the
|   Father and Jesus God the Son should be our first agape love, and those in the
|   family of Christ we must also agape love, and our spouses we must agape love
|   and we are even called to agape all people, but we're supposed to have no
|   agape for this world.
|  
|   Agape-loving our neighbour as ourself necessitates not bearing a grudge against
|   our neighbour and not taking vengeance - there is no fear or grudge or
|   vengence in agape love because agape love is selfless and compassionate and
|   agape love gives everything and holds nothing back to have a chance to
|   preserve and protect, to save. God would have sent Jesus even if there was
|   only one more person to save. Agape comes from God. God loved us this way and
|   paid the price for us for sin to be defeated that we may be reconciled back to
|   Him through Jesus. And we pass this type of love, agape love, forward to
|   others.
|  
|   We move forward serving God with hope to see His glory.
|  
|   Obedience is in the heart, along with belief in the Truth and understanding of
|   the gospel.
|  
|   Obedience can exist without work - a willingness of the spirit.
|  
|   Jesus said, "The spirit is indeed willing but the flesh is weak." The law can
|   also be followed by faith where it's a matter of seeking praise from God and
|   not from men.
|  
|   Our faith should be modelled on Abraham's faith.
|   By faith Abraham obeyed God. By faith Christians obey Christ.
|  
|   We're supposed to have joy in our obedience to God.
|  
|   We're supposed to go from agapeing darkness to agapeing God's light, and into
|   walking in the light, walking in God's will, and we're supported by God's
|   Spirit as we are doing this.

We serve the Only True God, the Most High God, Jehovah and Jesus Christ who
He has sent - the same God, and we are found in Christ Jesus:

  I Corinthians 8:5-7 - For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or
  on earth — as indeed there are many gods and many lords — yet for us there
  is one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist, and
  one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we
  exist. However, not all possess this knowledge. But some, through former
  association with idols, eat food as really offered to an idol, and their
  conscience, being weak, is defiled. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 10:17 - For the LORD your God is God of gods and Lord of lords,
  the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who is not partial and takes no
  bribe. (ESV)

Jesus is preparing us to be able to stand before Father God blamelessly:

  I Thessalonians 3:11-13 - Now may our God and Father himself, and our Lord
  Jesus, direct our way to you, and may the Lord make you increase and abound
  in love for one another and for all, as we do for you, so that he may
  establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father, at
  the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. (ESV)

Our relationship with God is based on our purity, not just our forgiveness:

  II Corinthians 6:16-18 - What agreement has the temple of God with idols?
  For we are the temple of the living God; as God said, I will make my
  dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they
  shall be my people. Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate from
  them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome you,
  and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me,
  says the Lord Almighty. (ESV)

Father God is pleased with showing love for people, especially those who the
world neglects. Father God is pleased when we keep ourselves unstained from
the world, and not in love with the world and not in love with the lusts of
the world. We should have agape love for people (treasuring people) and no
agape for the world:

  James 1:27 - Religion that is pure and undefiled (283. amiantos) before
  God, the Father, is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction,
  and to keep oneself unstained from the world. (ESV)

  James 4:4 - You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the
  world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the
  world makes himself an enemy of God. (ESV)

This morning (<2024-09-14 Sat>) I had this running through my head during my
sleep and as I was waking up - I love it when God does that. I feel much
cleaner today. This morning <2024-09-18 Wed> (4 days later) I was hit with
some spiritual attack (including strange dreams) so I purposefully stayed up
singing this song in my heart and mind and as I did, trying to 'will from the
heart' to desire to do God's will and I was able to beat the spiritual attack
back this morning :):

youtube.com: Purify My Heart {Refiner's Fire} | Jeremy Riddle - Worship
Moment

Purify my heart. Let me be as gold and precious silver. Purify my heart. Let
me be as gold, pure gold.

Refiner's fire, My heart's one desire is to be holy, set apart for You, Lord.
I choose to be holy, set apart for You, my Master, ready to do Your will

Sermon
youtube.com: Unstained from the World: The Battle for Purity - Tim Conway

To let go and let God purify us is generally incorrect. The Bible teaches
that we should cleanse our hearts, and it also teaches that God will cleanse
our heart. I like the phrase "let go of darkness and trust God" more. See:
youtube.com: Billy Graham Messages 2024 | LET GO & TRUST GOD:

  James 4:8 - Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your
  hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. (ESV)

  Acts 15:9 - and he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed
  their hearts by faith. (ESV)

Christ is reigning until all things are subjected to Him. We must come under
the Lordship of Christ Jesus. I consider any so-called god which is in
rebellion to Christ to be a demon:

  I Corinthians 15:25-28 - For he must reign until he has put all his enemies
  under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For God has put
  all things in subjection under his feet. But when it says, all things are
  put in subjection, it is plain that he is excepted who put all things in
  subjection under him. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son
  himself will also be subjected to him who put all things in subjection
  under him, that God may be all in all. (ESV)

  Luke 4:8 - And Jesus answered him, It is written, You shall worship the
  Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:13-14 - I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of
  heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the Ancient of Days
  and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a
  kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him; his
  dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his
  kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper

So if I were to put a title on this message it would be "No neutrality.
[There is] nothing in-between for and against (i.e. there are only two
options: for and against) - No neutrality. If you're not for Him, [then]
Jesus says you're against Him.

And I can imagine a person coming into this room and saying, "I'm not against
Jesus. I don't even think about Jesus most of the time."

To which I would respond, "You need to think about what you just said,
because to be against Jesus is to be against his purpose for your life, and
his purpose for your life does not mean you should spend 99% of your time not
thinking about him. That's not his purpose"

We have no other Lord, King, no other Master than Jesus Christ, but we serve
Jesus in serving each other:

  Matthew 23:8-11 - But you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one
  teacher, and you are all brothers. And call no man your father on earth,
  for you have one Father, who is in heaven. Neither be called instructors,
  for you have one instructor (2519. kathégétés), the Christ. The greatest
  among you shall be your servant. (ESV)

  Matthew 12:28-30 - But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out
  demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Or how can someone enter
  a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the
  strong man? Then indeed he may plunder his house. Whoever is not with me is
  against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 4:5 - For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus
  Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake. (ESV)

We don't worship foreign gods. We don't worship other servants of God, angels
or demons. We worship Jehovah God, and most Christians worship Jesus Christ
as God the Son, reigning as God with His Father - that's totally all good:

  Revelation of John 22:8-9 - I, John, am the one who heard and saw these
  things. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet
  of the angel who showed them to me, but he said to me, You must not do
  that! I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers the prophets, and
  with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God. (ESV)

I'm trying to side with Jesus over issues regarding the evil which is still
present in the world and "hate the sin, not the sinner", and starting by
first taking a look at my own problems but by no means endorsing sinful
things even things I consider I do which are sinful, I don't endorse them for
myself either:

  John 7:6-8 - Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is
  always here. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify
  about it that its works are evil. You go up to the feast. I am not going up
  to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come. (ESV)

  Psalms 82:1-8 - God has taken his place in the divine council; in the midst
  of the gods he holds judgment: A Psalm of Asaph. How long will you judge
  unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? Selah Give justice to the weak
  and the fatherless; maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute.
  Rescue the weak and the needy; deliver them from the hand of the wicked.
  They have neither knowledge nor understanding, they walk about in darkness;
  all the foundations of the earth are shaken. I said, You are gods, sons of
  the Most High, all of you; nevertheless, like men you shall die, and fall
  like any prince. Arise, O God, judge the earth; for you shall inherit all
  the nations! (ESV)

youtube.com: Deuteronomy 32 World View - There are Principalities That Rule
over Nations @time: 17 min 56 sec

Here's just one observation from I John 3 and John 1. You go back in the Old
Testament. Who are the holy ones?

Overwhelmingly, like 98% of the time, it's members of the heavenly host, the
Divine Council. In the New Testament, holy ones, your English Bible will have
'saints'. That title is never used of the heavenly host, the angels, it's
only used of you - of believers. Why the switch? Because we are the new sons
and daughters of God. We are going to replace what was lost in all these
rebellions both on Earth and ultimately in heaven, or the new Earth, the new
Eden. You go to Hebrews 2 where this is the passage where Jesus is not
ashamed to call us brothers, siblings. Where does that scene take place? If
go read the passage? Before the congregation. Before the council. It's right
there in the text. Paul in 1 Corinthians 6 tells the Corinthians who are
basically doing everything wrong, he says "Look, will you stop taking each
other to court. Don't you know that you're going to rule or judge angels.

What it means is: How are we going to judge angels? If you keep reading
Revelation 2, Revelation 3, in the new Eden we are put over the nations. To
him that overcomes I will put him over the nations. To the one that overcomes
I will let him sit on my throne and rule the nations. Who rules the nations
now? The fallen gods, the principalities, the powers the rebellious sons of
God. Who gets to replace them? Who judges them? Who will ultimately rule over
them and displace and replace them? That would be us. This is not a throwaway
line in Paul.

Quote from Mari Mari Emmanuel
So fear nothing, love everyone, but be firm when it comes to speaking the
truth. Truth cannot be compromised. It cannot be sold.

Amen
youtube.com youtube.com: Day 9: Repent New York City | Phillip Blair

  I agree whole heartedly with Keith Green here:

    • youtube.com: Keith Green 1978 : Make My Life A Prayer to You {live}

  I agree whole heartedly also with MP Nick Fletcher:

    • youtube.com: Christian MP: "A life in Christ is the most wonderful
      thing"

  I agree whole heartedly with John Piper in these videos. I've been watching
  some sermons from Desiring God:

    • youtube.com: The Blazing Center by John Piper
    • youtube.com: God's Delight in Obedience
    • youtube.com: His Voice in Yours: How Christ Wins the World
    • youtube.com: God is the Gospel
    • youtube.com: How to Seek the Holy Spirit @time: 48 min 13 sec
         • AMEN!!

  I agree whole-heartedly with David Mathis also:

    • youtube.com: What Is It Like to 'Know Christ'?
    • youtube.com: Work Out What Christ Has Won: The Christian Life as Gift
      and Duty

  I affirm this man's message:

    • youtube.com: The most eloquent, well spoken street preacher I've ever
      heard! | Preaching Times Square, NYC

  I appreciated hearing about Tucker Carlson's journey here and I also
  appreciate Living Waters' very straight-forward gospel message:

    • youtube.com: Recent Demon Attack Leads Tucker Carlson to CHRIST?
    • youtube.com: Tucker Says Supernatural Beings Are Taking Physical Form.
      Here's What He Means.

Acknowledgement
To be able to have affection for God and treasure God, and have a desire for
God is such a gift…. Thank you John Piper for helping me to see that, and
lead me into that truth… It makes so much sense in hindsight. Nothing in this
world could replace the gift of being able to know God Himself and have an
affectionate, treasuring, obedient, believing, desiring love for God.

  Romans 6:23 - For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is
  eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

Because God loved us first:

• The Apostle Paul endeavours to know Jesus ('makes it his own'. See Php
| 9-13 below) because Jesus made Paul His own
• To be found in Jesus is what Paul describes as the righteousness
from God that depends on faith
• We know Jesus by believing in Him and obeying His commandments, and
when we love and forgive we know God loved us and forgave us first
• We should love because He loved us first
• Romans 5:7-8 - For one will scarcely die for a righteous
person—though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die—
but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners,
Christ died for us. (ESV)
• We must forgive as we have been forgiven

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

youtube.com: The Deception Behind the Saying: God is Love
{@DerekPrinceMinistries} @time: 5 min 9 sec

I agree that love is the greatest thing. But the trouble is that people are
not always clear about the nature of love as it is described in the New
Testament. First of all, love in us is expressed in obedience to the Lord.
Any kind of love that does not result in obedience is unscriptural love. In
John 14:15 Jesus said to His disciples: "If you love Me, keep My
commandments." Or in a perhaps better text, "…you will keep my commandments."
In other words, what is the evidence that you love Him? The evidence is
keeping His commandments. Then in verse 21 (John 14:12), the first part,
Jesus says: "He who has My commandments and keeps them, it is he who loves
Me…" And in 1 John 5:3 it says: For this is the love of God, that we keep His
commandments…"

Therefore, any kind of love that does not result in the obedience to the will
of God revealed in His word, it is not scriptural love. It's a counterfeit, a
substitute for the real thing.

Then we need to consider the way that God expresses His love toward us. True,
God is our Father and He loves us. But as a Father, if necessary, He is
prepared to discipline us. In the messages to the seven churches depicted in
Revelation, I would say that Laodicea is probably the one that corresponds
most closely to the contemporary church in the West. And to that church the
Lord said: "As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. Therefore be zealous and
repent." So God's love is not sloppy. It's not sentimental. It is right down
to earth. If we are straying from His ways and if we are disobedient, His
love is expressed in rebuking us and chastening us, and He commands us to
repent.

Once again we have the problem of trying to get what God promises, but
bypassing the basic condition of repentance which is a deception. I recently
read the following comment by a British Bible teacher. "Some Christians take
the text "God is love" and turn it around to mean "Love is God." In other
words, nothing can be wrong if it is rooted in love. However, any love that
comes between us and God is an illegitimate love. Likewise, any love that
diverts us from obedience to God's word is illegitimate.

It's perfect self-humbling obedience throughout His sinless life as He walked
the earth in the flesh that only Jesus Christ has reached, was able to reach
and was destined to reach:

  Philippians 2:8 - And being found in human form, he humbled himself by
  becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 15:45 - Thus it is written, The first man Adam became a
  living being; the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. (ESV)

youtube.com: Is repentance an aspect of faith, or is repentance a good work?
{@ligonier} @time: 1 min 42 sec

NICHOLS: Yeah, I think what we need to see is faith is the trusting in, and
repentance is the turning from. And so, you know, as you come to God, we are
all oriented away from God, we are seeking not God, and so a conversion is a
180.

And as we are turning towards God in faith, we are turning from ultimately
the self and from sin, and that's repentance. So, if ever a soul is to get to
heaven, the two wings of faith and repentance will get that soul to heaven.

LAWSON: Yeah, and to even merge that together, all faith is a repentant faith
and all repentance is really a believing repentance. I mean, they really are
merged together. And you put it so well and it's true, the faith is the
turning to and repentance is the turning away from, and you can't have one
without the other. I mean, it's a package deal.

We obey the truth. We believe the gospel and obey the truth. We live
according to the truth. We are saved to serve/obey and be taught by Christ.
In my view it's all obedience to the truth and essentially means accepting
the gospel and letting it work in your life through belief-obedience. The
gospel being inclusive of all the sayings which Jesus spoke during His
ministry recorded in the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John and the deeds
which He carried out, including making atonement for sin:

  Luke 4:18-19 - The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed
  me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to
  the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those
  who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. (ESV)

  Luke 4:42-43 - And when it was day, he departed and went into a desolate
  place. And the people sought him and came to him, and would have kept him
  from leaving them, but he said to them, I must preach the good news of the
  kingdom of God to the other towns as well; for I was sent for this purpose.
  (ESV)

  John 12:44-50 - And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me,
  believes not in me but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who
  sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in
  me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and does not keep
  them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world but to save
  the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
  judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. For I
  have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself
  given me a commandment—what to say and what to speak. And I know that his
  commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has
  told me. (ESV)

  Luke 8:15 - As for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the
  word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and bear fruit with
  patience. (ESV)

  Luke 8:21 - But he answered them, My mother and my brothers are those who
  hear the word of God and do it. (ESV)

When we are living in faith in God for His promises we are living in an
obedient way. Belief and obedience are not separate things in my opinion, but
we must have both obedience and belief in the heart - we must agree that
gospel of Jesus is Truth and live in that reality holding faith and being
obedient to Jesus and God will make it happen. So living by faith walks
according to the will of God with hope in His promises, trust in Jesus and
faithfulness-obedience to His commandments, walking in the ways of God
seeking God's commendation, trusting in God, and living as though He exists:

  I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  (ESV)

  Acts 15:9 - and he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed
  their hearts by faith. (ESV)

I think John Piper meant to say cleansed your souls here in the first line:

youtube.com: Hope and the Fruit of Love @time: 13 min 58 sec
"You have cleansed your [souls] by obedience to the truth." Acts 15:9 says,
"God cleansed their hearts by faith." The gospel demands faith. Therefore,
obedience to the gospel is faith and faith is hope - faith in the future that
God is providing. Faith in all these truths of chapter 1 (i.e. [I Peter 1]),
means "hoping faith is the assurance of things hoped for."

Our faith should be in God and our hope should be for God's promises as we
serve God through Jesus. God has spoken a lot already in the Scriptures and
about how we should listen to Jesus. Saving faith trusts God:

  I Peter 1:20-23 - He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but
  was made manifest in the last times for your sake, who through him are
  believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that
  your faith and hope are in God. Having purified your souls by your
  obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another
  earnestly from a pure heart, since you have been born again, not of
  perishable seed but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of
  God; (ESV)

Both belief and obedience come out of a trust of God in the heart. So our
faith should be based on hope that is based on truth. We must understand the
truth in our hearts, and allow it to work itself out in us. The word of God
in the heart saves us.

When we trust in the name (onoma) of the Son of God, we receive forgiveness
of sins. Everyone who believes/trusts in Jesus receives forgiveness of sins
through His name:

  Acts 10:43-45 - To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who
  believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name. While Peter
  was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the
  word. And the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter
  were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the
  Gentiles. (ESV)

The Apostle Paul was obedient to God. This is Paul exercising his faith in
God through obedience. Also, this was obedience to a heavenly vision - a
vision in which Jesus was confessed (I John 4:3) - and it was a truthful
vision that is in accordance with the gospel which the earlier Apostles were
teaching:

  Acts 26:14-15 - And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice
  saying to me in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting
  me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads. And I said, Who are you,
  Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. (ESV)

  Acts 26:19 - Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the
  heavenly vision, (ESV)

We abide in Jesus when He washes us. When the Holy Spirit washes us, the Holy
Spirit helps us to put sin to death:

  John 13:8 - Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered
  him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. (ESV)

Peter believed/received/obeyed/trusted like a child of God (he cooperated) to
let Jesus wash him but it was Jesus doing the work:

  John 13:9 - Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only but also my
  hands and my head! (ESV)

Jesus' servants (people who believe and obey Him) are found in him. We know
Christ by living in the pattern in which he lived. Jesus' servants are those
who have accepted Jesus to wash them, and they ought to then wash one
another:

  Psalms 34:22 - The LORD redeems the life of his servants; none of those who
  take refuge in him will be condemned. (ESV)

And they were put in Him by Him:

  Titus 3:5-7 - he saved us, not because of works done by us in
  righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of
  regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us
  richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by his
  grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. (ESV)

When we walk in trusting, believing, obedient faith, God works in us and to
deliver us and makes our paths straight for us:

  Philippians 1:6 - And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in
  you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

  Matthew 7:15-20 - Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's
  clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their
  fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? So,
  every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit.
  A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good
  fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into
  the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits. (ESV)

  Matthew 12:33-35 - Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make
  the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. You
  brood of vipers! How can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the
  abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. The good person out of his good
  treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure
  brings forth evil. (ESV)

youtube.com: STOP Trying To Be a Better Christian… {Let Me Explain}

So I want to give you an illustration say for example you take a piece of
fruit and this represents righteous living, as the Bible commands us to live
as Christians.

Now, what I want to say is that Christians spend too much time focusing on
the fruit rather than the tree. There are so many Christians that are trying
to live right in order to be made, right rather than knowing that they've
been made right, so they live right out of that place.

Now, if I was to take a piece of fruit and I was to stick it on a tree that
is not a fruit tree, would that make it a fruit tree? Of course not. Why?
Because that tree can't produce fruit naturally on its own. But what if we
were to look at a fruit tree? How would we know that it's a fruit tree?
Because that fruit tree produces fruit on its own. If it's planted in good
soil, if it has water, if it has adequate sunlight, that tree is going to
produce good fruit naturally on its own. It's not going to stress and strive
to produce the fruit. It's going to produce the fruit in due season simply
because it is a fruit tree and that's what a fruit tree does.

And this is very similar for the Christian. So many Christians spend their
time basically trying to stick pieces of fruit on a tree rather than
recognizing that they are a tree that has been made right.

David Mathis
"Don't think that becoming like Jesus in his death means that Paul is
anticipating that he himself will be crucified, or that we will be crucified,
but that he wants us to know Christ as we live in the pattern in which he
lived; That we would have his heart, we would have his mind (mindset). We
would know him by walking in that mind, in that heart. That's the pattern
Paul wants to be conformed to. And knowing Christ by sharing in his
sufferings means walking in the footsteps of his self-humbling, and
experiencing Jesus' help and the fellowship of having Him near and His
resurrection power on the path of our obedience when it's the hardest".

Very well put by David Mathis. I'd say that in obeying Christ and imitating
Christ, we endeavour to be found in Him, and He is our righteousness, and He
is also our strength. We believe Truth because we believe Jesus. We obey
Righteousness because we obey Jesus.

Since the real Jesus is Faithful and True, He is trustworthy. If we trust in
Jesus then we trust the real Jesus which means we trust the words He spoke.
We are teachable by Jesus:

  Revelation of John 19:11 - Then I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white
  horse! The one sitting on it is called Faithful and True, and in
  righteousness he judges and makes war. (ESV)

I still believe that the upward call of God in Christ Jesus may result in
some being martyred. Holding to the Truth (remaining faithful to the Word of
God) while practicing righteousness (being obedient to Jesus, obedient to His
commandments), a person will receive persecution.

  II Timothy 3:12 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, (ESV)

  John 21:19 - (This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify
  God.) And after saying this he said to him, Follow me. (ESV)

We must act out our new nature:

youtube.com: The Hidden Snare of Bitterness @time: 4 min 6 sec
So when Paul says, "Put it on, this new nature, he means, 'Act it out'." If
you have been created anew after the likeness of God clothe yourselves with
godly garments. Now what is clothing? Clothing is what people see. When you
put clothing around yourself you give something for people to look at that's
presentable. So when Paul says "clothe yourselves, put on your new nature,"
he means, "let that inner reality that God has created work itself out in
visible actions and behaviors and attitudes. Become what you are within."

Mathetes to Diognetus
They dwell in their own countries, but simply as sojourners. As citizens,
they share in all things with others, and yet endure all things as if
foreigners. Every foreign land is to them as their native country, and every
land of their birth as a land of strangers. They marry, as do all [others];
they beget children; but they do not destroy their offspring. They have a
common table, but not a common bed. They are in the flesh, but they do not
live after the flesh. They pass their days on earth, but they are citizens of
heaven. They obey the prescribed laws, and at the same time surpass the laws
by their lives. They love all men, and are persecuted by all. They are
unknown and condemned; they are put to death, and restored to life. They are
poor, yet make many rich; they are in lack of all things, and yet abound in
all; they are dishonoured, and yet in their very dishonour are glorified.
They are evil spoken of, and yet are justified; they are reviled, and bless;
they are insulted, and repay the insult with honour; they do good, yet are
punished as evil-doers. When punished, they rejoice as if quickened into
life; they are assailed by the Jews as foreigners, and are persecuted by the
Greeks; yet those who hate them are unable to assign any reason for their
hatred. To sum up all in one word–what the soul is in the body, that are
Christians in the world. The soul is dispersed through all the members of the
body, and Christians are scattered through all the cities of the world. The
soul dwells in the body, yet is not of the body; and Christians dwell in the
world, yet are not of the world. The invisible soul is guarded by the visible
body, and Christians are known indeed to be in the world, but their godliness
remains invisible.

  Philippians 2:15 - that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God
  without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among
  whom you shine as lights in the world, (ESV)

Jesus follows us and supports us:

  I Corinthians 10:4 - and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank
  from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. (ESV)

Thanks to Jesus' endurance, His spirit empowers us to live as He lived, and
to be conformed to His image. Jesus wants us to practice His love, His faith,
His commandments:

  Hebrews 12:1-3 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. (ESV)

  Hebrews 2:16-18 - For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps
  the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in
  every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest
  in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For
  because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who
  are being tempted. (ESV)

This is Christ's law:

  John 15:12 - This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have
  loved you. (ESV)

We must have faith in Jesus to be justified by faith. God justifies the
person who trusts in Jesus and since we trust Jesus we should be doers of
Christ's law (which is not outside the law of God, so we are doers of the
law), and God justifies the person with the blood of Jesus. If we're trusting
in Jesus then we're trusting in God who justifies the ungodly. We're not
trusting in God to justify our ungodliness, but to justify us as we keep our
faith in Jesus:

  Romans 2:13-16 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous
  before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. For when
  Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they
  are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show
  that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience
  also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse
  them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of
  men by Christ Jesus. (ESV)

God's strength does not guarantee that we will not suffer as a result of
following Jesus. But God gives us the power at the time we need it to endure
the suffering:

  Hebrews 12:1-3 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. (ESV)

youtube.com: Sanctify Christ as Lord @time: 21 min 49 sec

When I stress that the glory of Christianity is that God wants His name to be
hallowed through your hoping in what He does for you rather than for what you
do for Him, that does not lead to passivity. It never has in the history of
the Christian church.

The people that believe that most dearly and most intently have the Holy
Spirit working not instead of them but inside of them, stirring them up to
maximise their enjoyment of the grace of God shed abroad in their labours.

God took the sting out of death and He took the futility out of labour, so
that He says, "You will mount up like wings like eagles. You will run and not
grow weary. You will walk and not faint." His power doesn't take the joy of
meaningful labour and productivity away from up.

It gets under it. It gets behind it. It gets in it. It gets in front of it
with reward.

It empowers it so that it's satisfying and freeing and liberating and you
come to the end of your day wonderfully weary, not excruciatingly weary.

The main point of the message is that God's name and His Son's name should be
hallowed in our hearts and it should be hallowed best when we hope most in
Him.

Quote from John Piper
God took the sting out of death and He took the futility out of labour, so
that He says, "You will mount up like wings like eagles. You will run and not
grow weary. You will walk and not faint."

AMEN to that!

The followers of Paul the Apostle live by (walk by) faith; those are the
righteous ones. It's a lifestyle:

  Galatians 3:11 - Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by
  the law, for The righteous shall live by faith. (ESV)

The crown of life is gifted to those who are obedient, and have been tested.
I think this verse can also be taken in the literal sense:

  Revelation 2:10 - Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the
  devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested,
  and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I
  will give you the crown of life. (ESV)

Jesus will manifest to those who keep His commandments:

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

Even the Apostle Paul explains that our freedom is for serving one another:

  Galatians 5:13 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use
  your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one
  another. (ESV)

Our freedom is so that we might live to God:

  Galatians 2:19 - For through the law I died to the law, so that I might
  live to God. (ESV)

  Psalms 119:45 - And I will walk at liberty, For I seek Your precepts.
  (NASB)

God is our life. We must love, obey, and hold fast to Him. Faith is not
without obedience, but we are to obey Jesus Christ and to believe in Jesus is
to have begun to obey Him:

  Deuteronomy 30:20 - loving the LORD your God, obeying his voice and holding
  fast to him, for he is your life and length of days, that you may dwell in
  the land that the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to
  Jacob, to give them. (ESV)

God is our life because Christ is our life. Our life is hidden with Christ in
God:

  Colossians 3:1-4 - If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the
  things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.
  Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth.
  For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ
  who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.
  (ESV)

Obey God, obey Jesus. This doesn't say that obeying the 10 commandments is
not important. To love God and your neighbour in truth from the heart is the
way to do this. But Mark 10:17-21 does say that following Jesus (treasuring
Jesus, His words and putting them into practice) is vitally important:

  Mark 10:17-21 - And as he was setting out on his journey, a man ran up and
  knelt before him and asked him, Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit
  eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is
  good except God alone. You know the commandments: Do not murder, Do not
  commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud,
  Honor your father and mother. And he said to him, Teacher, all these I have
  kept from my youth. And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him,
  You lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and
  you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.

To get to know Jesus, we must obey His commandments:

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

Christ Jesus has set us free to serve God, living for Him. Obeying Christ
Jesus, we are found in Him:

  John 13:34 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. (ESV)

In Christ Jesus seek to follow the pattern of His life to get to know Him,
and He gave us commandments to follow to do that. Faith in Christ Jesus is
not just a belief in the head but faith is trusting Him, and trusting in Him
with all our heart, soul, mind and strength. Both our belief in Him and
obedience to Him flow from our trust in Him. Anyone who claims to have come
to know Jesus but does not do what Jesus says is a liar and they are not in
the truth:

  Galatians 2:1-5 - Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem
  with Barnabas, taking Titus along with me. I went up because of a
  revelation and set before them (though privately before those who seemed
  influential) the gospel that I proclaim among the Gentiles, in order to
  make sure I was not running or had not run in vain. But even Titus, who was
  with me, was not forced to be circumcised, though he was a Greek. Yet
  because of false brothers secretly brought in—who slipped in to spy out our
  freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, so that they might bring us into
  slavery— to them we did not yield in submission even for a moment, so that
  the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you. (ESV)

Yes, Jesus has set us free, but it's to serve God by serving Christ. We are
freed in order to love and serve God:

  Galatians 5:1 - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore,
  and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:27 - Then the sovereignty, the dominion and the greatness of all
  the kingdoms under the whole heaven will be given to the people of the
  saints of the Highest One; His kingdom will be an everlasting kingdom, and
  all the dominions will serve and obey Him.’ (NASB)

Song
youtube.com: Satellite - Let Freedom Ring {Live at Eastercamp 2013}

Slaves worship idols. Christians obey God, and in obeying God we are free. We
love God and trust God and love Jesus and follow Jesus:

  Exodus 20:2-3 - I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of
  Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me.
  (ESV)

In believing we have eternal life, but we need to continue in obedience to
Jesus Christ or will not see life, so there should be a change of behaviour.
We should have changed to serve God. Even if "apeitheó" is better translated
to "not be pursuaded", trusting in Jesus Christ is still obedience. Unless
you believe that trusting in Jesus is disobedience, which it is not. It's
obedient to trust in Jesus because He commanded it in John 14:1. They're not
separate things. A heart that is pursuaded to trust Jesus is an obedient
heart:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to trust" / "to believe" / "to
have faith." In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective
and can be translated as "believing" / "trusting."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

  Matthew 23:10 - Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor
  (G2519 kathégétés), the Christ. (ESV)

kathégétés
Definition: Teacher, Leader, Guide. Meaning: a leader, teacher, guide,
master.

Dietrich Bonhoeffer says it like this, “Only he who believes is obedient, and
only he who is obedient believes.”

Read
gbtseminary.org: Cheap Grace: Bonhoeffer and the Cost of Discipleship - Grace
Bible Theological Seminary

Read
goodreads.com: The Cost of Discipleship Quotes by Dietrich Bonhoeffer

I can't say I agree with everything Bonhoeffer is purportedly said to have
believed, but as I said at the top of this document, just because I have
quoted some pastors and authors does not mean that I affirm everything they
have ever said, but I have selected quotes which I have found to be relevant
and helpful:

Read
newcriterion.com: The ambiguous witness of Dietrich Bonhoeffer | The New
Criterion

Although I can see how listening to Jesus and having faith in Jesus can be
seen as being obedient to God, God having commanded us to do so, I also
understand that it's God who miraculously purifies our heart as we put our
faith in Jesus.

  John 13:7 - Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now,
  but afterward you will understand. (ESV)

  Acts 15:8-9 - And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, by giving
  them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us, and he made no distinction
  between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith. (ESV)

However, I do also believe in the imputed righteousness that we can have from
God who is the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus, and that's the
righteousness of Jesus. However, God is the justifier, the one to grant this
righteousness, and I maintain the hope that God will justify me or has
already justified me as I continue in obedience. I think this is the right
way to think about it.

We should disobey sin, and present ourselves to God as those alive from the
dead, and our members as instruments of righteousness to God. We should be
practicing righteousness, practicing love and holiness and truth:

  Romans 6:12-13 - Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that
  you obey its lusts, and do not go on presenting the members of your body to
  sin as instruments of unrighteousness; but present yourselves to God as
  those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness
  to God. (NASB)

We need to receive the Holy Spirit:

Quote by John Piper
Hold fast in obedience to what you have heard and believed.

Father God loved Jesus, Jesus loved us, we love God back by loving Jesus back
by keeping Jesus' commandments, and Jesus sends His Holy Spirit to us, and we
come to know Jesus intimately:

  John 15:9 - As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my
  love. (ESV)

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

We love in the way Jesus loved us, which is how God loved Jesus:

  John 17:26 - I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it
  known, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in
  them. (ESV)

  John 17:23 - I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one,
  so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you
  loved me. (ESV)

  John 14:15-17 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. (ESV)

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

  I John 4:13 - By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he
  has given us of his Spirit. (ESV)

God loves Jesus, God loved us first through Jesus. Jesus loved us. Love comes
from God. We then endeavour to love one another in the way Jesus loved us,
passing forward this love. We don't take Jesus (God the Son) out of the
equation, nor do we take Father God out of the equation. We were loved first
by God:

  I John 4:9-10 - In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that
  God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. In
  this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his
  Son to be the propitiation for our sins. (ESV)

Jesus and Father God manifest to those who keep His word and obey Him:

  John 14:22-23 - Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, Lord, how is it that you
  will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world? Jesus answered him, If
  anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we
  will come to him and make our home with him.

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
Hold fast in obedience to what you have heard and believed. John 14:22 really
bothers some people. John 14:22, here's what it says: "Lord, how is it that
you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world?" Jesus answered him,
"If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and
we will come to him and make our home with him." This is not unconditional
love. This is profoundly conditional. I'll read it again: "Lord how is it
that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world, to us - we are
your disciples. If anyone loves me he will keep my word and my father will
love him - In a way that he doesn't love everybody! My father will love him,
and We will come to him to that one who loves us and keeps our word. We will
come to that one, make our home, our abode, with him. There is an experience
of intimacy and at homeness with Jesus and the father that comes only through
obedience. Those who love me so much that keeping my word is not the works of
the law, but the overflow of their affections for Me - and how could we not
move into such in such a heart with the fullness of the at homeness that you
longed for. If anyone keeps My word, holds fast treasures it, in obedience,
that person will not be quenching the spirit, that person will not be
grieving the spirit, but will know the fullness and sweetness of fellowship
with the Father and the Son. If you're watching pornagraphy every week, do
not expect this experience - you wont have it. If you're harsh with your
wife, you wont have it.

AMEN!!

youtube.com: Accept the Holy Spirit - Derek Prince Sermon @time: 9 min 47 sec
I don't believe you can be saved without meeting Jesus. I don't mean that you
mean that you meet him visibly as the disciples did but I don't believe
there's any way into the true church of Jesus Christ except Jesus. He said,
"I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved." So I believe
this is a pattern for the new birth for every person. We have to meet Jesus.
Not just believe a Doctrine or join a church, but have a personal encounter
with the resurrected Christ and receive from him the in breathed Breath of
God which is the Holy Spirit and become a new creation. We pass from death to
life. I remember when I met Jesus face to face, not visibly, but face to face
in an army barracks room in the British Army in World War II. I didn't have
any doctrinal knowledge of Salvation. I couldn't say I was born again. I
didn't know what you had to do to be saved, but believe me I was saved. Later
on I got the doctrine. But I'd met Jesus and I just want to tell you dear
friends that you cannot meet Jesus and stay the same. You can join a church
and remain unchanged. You can believe all sorts of things with your head and
remain unchanged, but when you meet the resurrected Christ it's transforming
and it's permanent.

youtube.com: Jesus Is Not Just A Prophet Or A Guru @time: 3 min 52 sec

I'd been deeply involved in yoga. And when I was challenged with the gospel
and the presentation of Jesus Christ, I simply was not able to acknowledge
Him as Son of God and Messiah until I had a tremendous deliverance.

That was the first deliverance I was ever in, it was the middle of the night,
it was in an army barrack room.

I was flat on my back on the floor and I have no idea how many demons came
out of me. But many. And the moment that yoga demon left I knew that Jesus is
the Son of God, I didn't have any more doubt.

When I was born again of the Spirit, in faith I confessed Jesus - I wasn't
told "this is Jesus here making you born-again" - I asked Jesus to save me,
and then continued walking in faith, believing I had an experience with God,
so I believed God existed, but I sought then to demonstrate my faith to Jesus
in my walk, through my inward thoughts, my prayer life with Jesus, my outward
actions and my outward words:

  Romans 8:23-25 - And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the
  firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption
  as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now
  hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we
  hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. (ESV)

Then after a month I confessed Jesus a second time after "giving God my
first-fruits" in response.

OK, so in response for being forgiven and born-again, we should live to serve
God through serving Christ, getting to know Christ, and disobeying sin.

  Romans 7:1-4 - Or do you not know, brothers—for I am speaking to those who
  know the law—that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives?
  Thus a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if
  her husband dies she is released from the law of marriage. Accordingly, she
  will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her
  husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and
  if she marries another man she is not an adulteress. Likewise, my brothers,
  you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may
  belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that
  we may bear fruit for God. (ESV)

I believe that if I am disobeying sin and obeying Jesus then I am cooperating
with Jesus as He fights for me to overcome the sin and to put the sin to
death:

  Colossians 3:5 - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. (ESV)

That is the obvious conclusion. I should not be a hypocrite about it.

youtube.com: Jeff Vines - Ready or Not: Here Comes Temptation Pt 2 - 21
November 2024 @time: 5 min 47 sec
Trial and temp[tation] - are they the same? No. But a test in your life
either takes you closer to God or takes you farther away from God, depending
on your response. A test is a test until you respond inappropriately at which
point it becomes a temptation. Now please stay with me, this is so important,
you are going to encounter all kinds of stuff and it's either going to make
you grow in your relationship with God or it's going to take you further away
from God, but you will not remain the same.

Jesus has set me free, and there's no condemnation for those who are in
Christ, but we should have a response of love for Jesus, and live to serve
Jesus, and it's very, very important to embrace sanctification, and to put a
stop to willful sin.

desiringgod.org: The High Cost of Sexual Sin | Desiring God
I'm trying to explode the doctrine that the battle for obedience is optional
because only faith is necessary for salvation. This is very tricky the way
words are used here. The battle for obedience is absolutely necessary for
salvation because it is the fight of faith. The battle for obedience is
absolutely necessary for getting to heaven because it is the battle against
unbelief. It is the fight of faith. There are not two battles: one to get
yourself saved by a single act of faith, and the other to collect rewards by
work. There is only one battle - it's the one that gets you started, it's the
one that gets you there, and it's the fight of faith not works! Faith is what
severs the root of covetousness, misplaced shame, anxiety, lust, envy, and
six more before we are done this year. There is one warfare, and it is the
warfare of faith.

AMEN!! If only someone had told me this first. Repentance (metanoia) from sin
is an important part of salvation.

John Piper - We should rely entirely on the righteousness of Christ imputed
to us by faith alone as the ground of God being 100% for us after which
necessary sanctification comes.􀀱􂮌

I don't think repentance from sin is a separate issue from salvation but is a
continuation of accepting the gospel. We continue to believe the Truth, being
washed in the Truth, God's Word, and alongside that our souls are being
purified through obedience to the Truth, God's Word. Jesus is the Son of God,
the Word of God, the Word of God made flesh. God's spoken Word is the Word of
God. Jesus' Words are also the Word. We trust, believe and obey the Word of
God, and this repentance is absolutely necessary for salvation.

We must embrace sanctification, and be slaves of God, obeying God, obeying
righteousness:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

  Romans 6:20-23 - When you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to
  righteousness. But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things
  of which you are now ashamed? The end of those things is death. But now
  that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the
  fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the
  wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ
  Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

I do believe that now. After receiving the Holy Spirit, we must use the
spirit to put sin to death, and stop willfully sinning. Committing sin
against our own bodies is very, very unwise:

  Romans 8:13 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if
  by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. (ESV)

The Apostle Paul still recognises that we are supposed to have a heart of
obedience to Jesus. And I imagine the others who Paul came into an argument
with were also concerned about going on without love. In return for the grace
given to us, we are supposed to love Jesus back in obedience to His
commandments:

  Galatians 2:10 - Only, they asked us to remember the poor, the very thing I
  was eager to do. (ESV)

Those who teach others to disobey Jesus, calling Jesus' commandments contrary
to grace, are not being humble. We're not being set free from Jesus - we're
getting married to Him. But Jesus indeed did give us freedom. We can resist
people who try to put us under a yoke of slavery, but we don't teach people
to disobey Jesus as to do so is to teach pride and lawlessness and against
trusting in Jesus, and against obeying Jesus, and against believing Jesus
regarding all the warnings about disobedience and disbelief, and I think it's
without the fear of God to teach others to disobey Jesus.

God gives grace to the humble (not the self-righteous). That is true. But
recognising your own sin and calling it sin is humility. And in wanting to
turn from it, God may give grace to do so:

  James 4:6 - But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the
  proud, but gives grace to the humble. (ESV)

We are supposed to have a response of repentance from sin. God's kindness is
meant to lead us to repentance from sin. And turning from sin is a loving
response to grace given:

  Romans 2:4 - Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and
  forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead
  you to repentance? (ESV)

  Matthew 5:6 - Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness,
  for they shall be satisfied.

The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ is available for all
who believe. It is received by faith, and God is the one who justifies us. We
must hold faith in Jesus and seek God's justification. We don't justify
ourselves. Faith continues. I think it's really important to believe, trust
in and obey Jesus since that's what Abraham's faith was like - it was
believing, trusting and obedient:

  Romans 3:20-26 - For by works of the law no human being will be justified
  in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. But now the
  righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the
  Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the righteousness of God through
  faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction: for
  all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by
  his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom
  God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith.
  This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he
  had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the
  present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has
  faith in Jesus. (ESV)

Those in the kingdom of God hold faith in Jesus and serve Jesus:

  Romans 14:17-18 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever
  thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. (ESV)

There are commandments from God which even Paul the Apostle regarded as
important to follow for all people who serve Jesus, such as the 10
Commandments and the commandments which came from Jesus Himself, including
the Golden Rule:

  Romans 13:9-10 - The commandments, You shall not commit adultery, You shall
  not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet, and any other
  commandment, are summed up in this word: You shall love your neighbor as
  yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the
  fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

Quote by John Bunyan
Interpreter explained, "This parlor is the heart of a man which has never
been sanctified by the sweet grace of the Gospel. The dust is his original
sin and inward corruptions, which have defiled the whole man. He who began to
sweep at first, is the Law. The maiden who brought and sprinkled the water,
is the Gospel. "You saw that as soon as the man began to sweep, that the dust
thickly swirled around the room, and became even more difficult to cleanse,
nearly choking you to death. This is to show you that the Law, instead of
cleansing the heart from sin—does in fact arouse sin, giving greater strength
to it—and causing it to flourish in the soul. The Law both manifests and
forbids sin—but it has no power to subdue sin. "Again, you saw the maiden
sprinkle the room with water, upon which it was cleansed with ease. This is
to show you, that when the Gospel comes in the sweet and precious influences
thereof to the heart—then, I say, even as you saw the maiden subdue the dust
by sprinkling the floor with water—just so is sin vanquished and subdued, and
the soul made clean, through faith, and consequently fit for the King of
glory to inhabit."

youtube.com: Servants or Secret Agents? @time: 17 min 4 sec

Sin is a power and not just an act. So many people think that sin is like
stealing or killing or lying. And of course that is sin, but that's not the
main problem.

If that were the main problem, willpower could save us. The main problem is
that sin is a power, and it takes captive desires.

The law is good. It's not our source of justification but we don't teach
people to disobey it, especially those who follow it by faith.

  Romans 14:10-14 - Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do
  you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of
  God; for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to
  me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an
  account of himself to God. Therefore let us not pass judgment on one
  another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or
  hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and am persuaded in the Lord
  Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who
  thinks it unclean. (ESV)

The command to believe is a command to obedience, the obedience of faith. The
command to obedience is not to the law but to have faith in Jesus. While the
law of God revives the soul while we are actually meditating on it and doing
it, the law doesn't save to perfection - it doesn't purify the heart:

  Psalms 19:7-9 - The law of the LORD is perfect, reviving the soul; the
  testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple; the precepts of the
  LORD are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the LORD is pure,
  enlightening the eyes; the fear of the LORD is clean, enduring forever; the
  rules of the LORD are true, and righteous altogether. (ESV)

  Hebrews 7:19 - (for the law made nothing perfect); but on the other hand, a
  better hope is introduced, through which we draw near to God. (ESV)

  Psalms 1:1-2 - Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the
  wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers;
  but his delight is in the law of the LORD, and on his law he meditates day
  and night. (ESV)

The obedience we have in the heart which saves is trust in Jesus Christ
Himself where we become trusting, believing and obedient to Jesus, and as we
hold fast to His gospel, Jesus brings us to God. God purifies our heart as we
hold faith in Jesus:

  I Peter 3:18-20 - For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for
  the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the
  flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the
  spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience
  waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a
  few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. (ESV)

And, if we live in the flesh, the sinful passions are aroused by the law to
bear fruit for death:

  Romans 7:5 - For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions,
  aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death.
  (ESV)

We are not perfected by the law, but by the Spirit:

  Galatians 3:3 - Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now
  being perfected by the flesh? (ESV)

Instead we focus on following Jesus first and foremost:

  Romans 14:22-23 - The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God.
  Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what
  he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the
  eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.
  (ESV)

And we are perfected through obedience to the Truth (Jesus) and faith in
Jesus as His Spirit sanctifies us:

  I Peter 1:22-25 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable,
  through the living and abiding word of God; for All flesh is like grass and
  all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, and the flower
  falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good
  news that was preached to you. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:43-48 - You have heard that it was said, You shall love your
  neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray
  for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is
  in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends
  rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you,
  what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if
  you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not
  even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect, as your
  heavenly Father is perfect. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
That's who we are as Christians. When we walk according to the Spirit, we
fulfill the just requirement of the law. That is, we keep the commandments,
we love. We are doers of the law. Not sinlessly perfect law-keepers. Nobody
is nor anybody has been except Jesus, which is why we depend on Him, but
rather, radically transformed people, through faith, in the power of the Holy
Spirit, leaning on the grace of God that comes to us through Jesus Christ.

We're saved and rescued from idolatry and from other lawlessness, and in
order to serve God and obey His commandments as Jesus has taught us to keep
them:

  Ezekiel 36:25-27 - I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be
  clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols I will cleanse
  you. And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within
  you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a
  heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk
  in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. (ESV)

Polycarp 2:1
Wherefore gird up your loins and serve God in fear and truth, forsaking the
vain and empty talking and the error of the many, for that ye have believed
on Him that raised our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead and gave unto him
glory and a throne on His right hand; unto whom all things were made subject
that are in heaven and that are on the earth; to whom every creature that
hath breath doeth service; who cometh as judge of quick and dead; whose blood
God will require of them that are disobedient unto Him.

A short version of my testimony of being born-again and Jesus setting me
free:

• Baptised as a teenager in Vanuatu in 2005
• I've been writing software since then
• Life had been hard. I was a slave to the world, to sin and was in
darkness (I could only see the world, and didn't have a love for God)
• I was a hopeless case. I was looking for salvation through working
harder, and trying to get ahead of the curve with AI stuff
• Ephesians 2:12 - remember that you were at that time separated
from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and
strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and
without God in the world. (ESV)
• I was full of guilt, and I had so much shame and life has always
been difficult
• I didn't have much love for Jesus. I struggled to believe He was
for-me.
• My priorities were not in order. God wasn't my number one love or
treasure
• I began seeking God out, particularly in the second half of 2020, and
began having bolder faith in Jesus
• web.archive.org mullikine.github.io: Prayer // Bodacious Blog
• trying to follow God's commandments from the heart, accountable to
God, and getting more confident talking about God
• began taking steps of faith, believing in God and standing up for
what I considered good and condemning what I considered evil
• One thing which made me very angry is how big tech was/is using
AI to steal GNU software
• It seems that God was working in my life
• I think God was working in my heart, making a new heart for me
• I had begun seeking God, but I still needed God to rescue me from
darkness:
• Psalms 14:2-3 - The LORD looks down from heaven on the children
of man, to see if there are any who understand, who seek after
God. They have all turned aside; together they have become
corrupt; there is none who does good, not even one. (ESV)
• I started researching AI fiction in 2021, invested in the Aletheia AI
crypto with their Noah's Ark project for preserving personalities on the
block chain
• I was building Pen.el. Initially the software was
• to insulate myself against AI fiction, and
• to inform people about what was coming around the corner
• as a labour of love for the person I really like
• It was like an 'Ark'
• However, I wouldn't say I was instructed to build it as
Noah was, but I thought it was more important for the
world for me to do good than for me to get paid work, and
as I did this I was saying on Reddit, etc. that people
should not use this AI large language model stuff to rule
like gods over others
• Hebrews 11:7
• I got born-again of the Spirit on 2 April 2022
• I woke up to observing my regenerated 'spirit-man' and called out to
Jesus in this spirit body saying I didn't know what was going on but
asking him to save me
• I found out recently this was the 1st day of Nisan
• https://www.jhiblog.org/2017/05/29/the-first-of-nisan-the-forgotten-jewish-new-year/
• I put down the AI stuff and began pursuing God full-time
• I wrote about God's law written on my heart, for example:
• web.archive.org mullikine.github.io: The Tapestry of Truth //
Bodacious Blog
• I had an immersive vision of healing people with compassion soon after,
just 2-3 weeks before Pentecost that year
• Agape love feels like "A deep longing or very intense treasuring
compassion and desperate yearning in the heart for someone to be OK,
for them to not perish or be in pain." - This is what it felt like
coming out of me.
• John 7:37-38 - On the last day of the feast, the great day,
Jesus stood up and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come
to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has
said, Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. (ESV)

I really affirm Marc's message here:

• youtube.com: When You Become Chosen You Will Find Yourself Alone

I'll also add Geoff Winter's testimony:

• youtube.com: Testimony of Geoff Winter, 2017

  Romans 10:12-13 - For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; the
  same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For
  everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. (ESV)

AMEN!!

1. Confessions of faith

1.1. The order of salvation

I plan on adhering to what the Word of God says, even if it offends other
Christians when it comes to contentious topics as the order of salvation, or
salvation by obedience and I want my theology to be 'raw and real', and
always Scriptural.

The gospel in a nutshell:

  Acts 26:14-20 - And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice
  saying to me in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting
  me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads. And I said, Who are you,
  Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. But rise and
  stand upon your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to
  appoint you as a servant and witness to the things in which you have seen
  me and to those in which I will appear to you, delivering you from your
  people and from the Gentiles—to whom I am sending you to open their eyes,
  so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to
  God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who
  are sanctified by faith in me. Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not
  disobedient to the heavenly vision, but declared first to those in
  Damascus, then in Jerusalem and throughout all the region of Judea, and
  also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, performing
  deeds in keeping with their repentance. (ESV)

  Acts 28:25-28 - And disagreeing among themselves, they departed after Paul
  had made one statement: The Holy Spirit was right in saying to your fathers
  through Isaiah the prophet: Go to this people, and say, You will indeed
  hear but never understand, and you will indeed see but never perceive. For
  this people's heart has grown dull, and with their ears they can barely
  hear, and their eyes they have closed; lest they should see with their eyes
  and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn, and I
  would heal them. Therefore let it be known to you that this salvation of
  God has been sent to the Gentiles; they will listen. (ESV)

The general order of salvation from what I can dilvulge from Acts 26 and Acts
|  

• See with their eyes
• II Corinthians 4:6 - For God, who said, Let light shine out of
darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge
of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. (ESV)
• Isaiah 42:6-7 - I am the LORD; I have called you in righteousness; I
will take you by the hand and keep you; I will give you as a
covenant for the people, a light for the nations, to open the eyes
that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from
the prison those who sit in darkness. (ESV)
• Luke 4:18-19 - The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has
anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to
proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the
blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the
year of the Lord's favor. (ESV)
• John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the
world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have
the light of life. (ESV)
• Hear with their ears
• Matthew 11:15 - He who has ears to hear, let him hear. (ESV)
• Romans 10:17 - So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the
word of Christ. (ESV)
• Understand with their heart
• Romans 10:10 - For with the heart one believes and is justified, and
with the mouth one confesses and is saved. (ESV)
• Turn from darkness to light
• They believe the truth, and place their faith in Jesus
• Ephesians 1:13-14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of
truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were
sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of
our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the
praise of his glory. (ESV)
• They believe in / trust in Jesus Christ's name
• Acts 10:43-45 - To him all the prophets bear witness that
everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins
through his name. While Peter was still saying these things,
the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word. And the
believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter
were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out
even on the Gentiles. (ESV)
• They become trusting to God, pursuaded in the heart, believing and
obedient
• John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing
(verb)) in the Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey
(544. apeitheó) the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of
God remains on him. (ESV)
• Hebrews 11:8 - By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go
out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he
went out, not knowing where he was going. (ESV)
• Turn from the power of Satan to God
• Satan stops controlling them. God starts working through them, as we
believe and obey, and our house is built.
• Philippians 2:13 - for it is God who works in you, both to will
and to work for his good pleasure. (ESV)
• Psalms 127:1 - Unless the LORD (3068. Yhvh - Phonetic Spelling:
(yeh-ho-vaw'), Meaning: Jehovah) builds the house, those who
build it labor in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city,
the watchman stays awake in vain. (ESV)
• If Jehovah builds the house then those who build it do not
labour in vain
• Luke 6:48 - he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and
laid the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the
stream broke against that house and could not shake it, because
it had been well built. (ESV)
• II Timothy 2:24-26 - And the Lord's servant must not be
quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently
enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God
may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the
truth, and they may escape from the snare of the devil, after
being captured by him to do his will. (ESV)
• II Corinthians 5:1-3 - For we know that if the tent, which is
our earthly home, is destroyed, we have a building from God, a
house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this
tent we groan, longing to put on our heavenly dwelling, if
indeed by putting it on we may not be found naked. (ESV)
• Sin is forgiven as a person turns from darkness to light and turns from
satan's will to God's will
• Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness
to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive
forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by
faith in me. (ESV)
• God heals
• Sanctification is received through working faith, obedience, belief,
trust - receiving healing, being renewed in mind, being conformed to
Christ's image
• Luke 8:15 - As for that in the good soil, they are those who,
hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and
bear fruit with patience. (ESV)
• I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may
have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so
also are we in this world. (ESV)
• Acts 26:20 - but declared first to those in Damascus, then in
Jerusalem and throughout all the region of Judea, and also to
the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God,
performing deeds in keeping with their repentance. (ESV)
• Receive the inheritance

God is the justifier, not us:

  Romans 3:26 - It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that
  he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

God raised Jesus up on the cross of Calvary and word got around with the
preaching of gospel the Kingdom of God, so that those who trust in Him and
believe Him, putting their trust in Him for who He is (the Son of God, the
Messiah, our Lord and Saviour) and what He taught might be saved from the
wrath of God and have eternal life.

I also take John 3:14 in the sense that in a way God still does this to
remind us. For example, with the popular TV series the Chosen, I feel like
God has reminded the world about Jesus.

  John 3:14-19 - And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even
  so must the Son of man be lifted up: That whosoever believeth in him should
  not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world, that he gave
  his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish,
  but have everlasting life. For God sent not his Son into the world to
  condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved. He that
  believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned
  already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son
  of God. And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world,
  and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.
  (KJV)

Jesus is brought into the spotlight. Those who would put their trust in
Jesus, believing in Him are not condemned.

I really like John MacArthur's church's doctrinal statement. I just think
it's helpful and quite accurate, but I may have my disagreements.

When we are born of God, I believe we have willed/done something which is in
God's will. John 1:12-14 I think shows that when a person's will becomes
God's will through believing (4100. pisteuó) faith in Jesus Christ's name,
they have the authority to become children of God:

  John 1:12-14 - But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he
  gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor
  of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God. And the Word
  became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of
  the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. (ESV)

1.2. Living in observance of the Law is fine, and even encouraged

Given that Moses had been already been proclaimed in those cities of the
Gentiles mentioned, they sought to remind them to observe these 4 things:

  Acts 15:19-21 - Therefore my judgment is that we should not trouble those
  of the Gentiles who turn to God, but should write to them to abstain from
  the things polluted by idols, and from sexual immorality, and from what has
  been strangled, and from blood. For from ancient generations Moses has had
  in every city those who proclaim him, for he is read every Sabbath in the
  synagogues. (ESV)

God (who knows the heart) gave the Holy Spirit to the Gentiles who had
trusted/believed the word of truth, just as he had given the Holy Spirit to
those Jews who had believed, and God cleansed their hearts by faith. The
Apostle Peter made a point that he (Peter) and the other Apostles were also
relying on the grace of God, believing that they (the Apostles) would be
saved, just as the Gentiles who believed would be saved:

  Acts 15:5-11 - But some believers who belonged to the party of the
  Pharisees rose up and said, It is necessary to circumcise them and to order
  them to keep the law of Moses. The apostles and the elders were gathered
  together to consider this matter. And after there had been much debate,
  Peter stood up and said to them, Brothers, you know that in the early days
  God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the
  word of the gospel and believe. And God, who knows the heart, bore witness
  to them, by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us, and he made
  no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.
  Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test by placing a yoke on
  the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to
  bear? But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord
  Jesus, just as they will. (ESV)

Also, Luke 11:13 says God gives the Holy Spirit to those who ask him. So I
think it's typical to believe God, believing the gospel, and to ask God for
His Holy Spirit, expecting that God will cleanse our heart through faith,
being prepared to continue obeying the truth for a sincere brotherly love:

  Luke 11:13 - If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your
  children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to
  those who ask him! (ESV)

The same Apostle Peter made a point here about how we obey the Truth for a
sincere brotherly love from a pure heart, purifying our souls. We believe and
obey the good news, the gospel:

  I Peter 1:22-25 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable,
  through the living and abiding word of God; for All flesh is like grass and
  all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, and the flower
  falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good
  news that was preached to you. (ESV)

• Step 1 and ongoing: Believe the gospel / good news / the word of the
Lord, cleansing our heart by faith.
• The heart is purified by faith - believing the gospel.
• Hold fast to the gospel.
• Step 2 and ongoing: Love one another earnestly from a pure heart, obeying
the Truth who is Jesus and the Truth which is the Word of God, even the
Scripture.
• The soul is purified by obeying the Truth for a sincere brotherly
love issuing from a pure heart.
• This obedience to the Truth is primarily continuing to obey Jesus
who is the Truth and our Lord and Master and may be done while
observing the Law (Torah) which is useful for correction and
training in righteousness, but we do not call the Law our Master. We
are primarily slaves to Jesus who is our Righteousness. We don't
teach against following the Law by faith but we follow Jesus first
and foremost and have freedom as we do this, and the law doesn't
condemn us as we are following Jesus.
• Also we continue holding fast to the gospel.

So you see that whoever hopes in Jesus (has faith in Jesus) purifies himself
as He is pure by obedience to the Truth. So this is really about turning away
from sin, even after having come to faith in Jesus:

  I John 3:2-7 - Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has
  not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him,
  because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him
  purifies himself as he is pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning
  also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared
  to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him
  keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known
  him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. (ESV)

It's the flesh which is weak thanks to sin in the flesh. But in our inner
being, we delight in the law of God. This is definitely true to me:

  Romans 7:16-25 - Now if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law, that
  it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within
  me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I
  have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out.
  For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep
  on doing. Now if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who do it, but
  sin that dwells within me. So I find it to be a law that when I want to do
  right, evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of God, in my
  inner being, but I see in my members another law waging war against the law
  of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my
  members. Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of
  death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself
  serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of
  sin. (ESV)

And whoever doesn't have the heart to do this is of the devil. God's seed
does not sin. Whatever is born of God does not sin:

  I John 3:7-11 - Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of
  sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning.
  The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil.
  No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in
  him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. By this
  it is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the
  devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the
  one who does not love his brother. For this is the message that you have
  heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. (ESV)

But also, not only the flesh but worldly people rebel against us when we want
to obey God. I get all sorts of opposition against me for obedience to God or
when I say we must obey God.

  I John 5:19 - We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the
  power of the evil one. (ESV)

We must believe in, trust, believe, obey, follow Jesus:

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life. (ESV)

  John 12:46 - I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes
  in me may not remain in darkness. (ESV)

It seems that people can indeed be both zealous for the Law (Torah),
observing the Law (Torah), and at the same time be believers in Jesus. Paul
wasn't telling people to forsake Moses, as far as I understand, but there was
some circulating rumor that he had been doing that:

  Acts 21:20-25 - And when they heard it, they glorified God. And they said
  to him, You see, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews of
  those who have believed. They are all zealous for the law, and they have
  been told about you that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles
  to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or walk
  according to our customs. What then is to be done? They will certainly hear
  that you have come. Do therefore what we tell you. We have four men who are
  under a vow; take these men and purify yourself along with them and pay
  their expenses, so that they may shave their heads. Thus all will know that
  there is nothing in what they have been told about you, but that you
  yourself also live in observance of the law. But as for the Gentiles who
  have believed, we have sent a letter with our judgment that they should
  abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from
  what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality. (ESV)

1.2.1. It's interesting that the KJV reads quite differently here, but I'm
comfortable with the ESV

  Acts 21:20-25 - And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord, and said
  unto him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are which
  believe; and they are all zealous of the law: And they are informed of
  thee, that thou teachest all the Jews which are among the Gentiles to
  forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise their children,
  neither to walk after the customs. What is it therefore? the multitude must
  needs come together: for they will hear that thou art come. Do therefore
  this that we say to thee: We have four men which have a vow on them; Them
  take, and purify thyself with them, and be at charges with them, that they
  may shave their heads: and all may know that those things, whereof they
  were informed concerning thee, are nothing; but that thou thyself also
  walkest orderly, and keepest the law. As touching the Gentiles which
  believe, we have written and concluded that they observe no such thing,
  save only that they keep themselves from things offered to idols, and from
  blood, and from strangled, and from fornication. (KJV)

  Proverbs 28:9 - If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his
  prayer is an abomination. (ESV)

1.3. I'm non-denominational

I do not consider myself to be a part of any particular denomination; I have
an affinity to churches which have strong Biblical teaching, and a focus on
applying Jesus' commandments.

Saint Justin Martyr: Fragments of the Lost Work of Justin on the Resurrection
{Roberts-Donaldson}
The word of truth is free, and carries its own authority, disdaining to fall
under any skilful argument, or to endure the logical scrutiny of its hearers.
But it would be believed for its own nobility, and for the confidence due to
Him who sends it.

  Romans 14:22 - The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God.
  Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what
  he approves. (ESV)

1.4. 1689 Baptist confession of faith

Read
https://www.the1689confession.com/

1.4.1. Chapter 1

|  Paragraph 10
| 
|  The supreme judge, by which all controversies
|  of religion are to be determined, and all
|  decrees of councils, opinions of ancient
|  writers, doctrines of men, and private
|  spirits, are to be examined, and in whose
|  sentence we are to rest, can be no other but
|  the Holy Scripture delivered by the Spirit,
|   into which Scripture so delivered, our faith
|   is finally resolved
|  
|   21 Matt. 22:29, 31, 32; Eph. 2:20; Acts 28:23

AMEN!!

1.4.2. Notes for Chapter 2, paragraph 1

  Numbers 14:18 - The LORD is slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love,
  forgiving iniquity and transgression, but he will by no means clear the
  guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, to the third
  and the fourth generation. (ESV)

  Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts him who justifies
  the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, (ESV)

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

If you have trusting faith in God then you will walk according to the will of
God (walk the way Jesus Christ calls us to walk in obedience to Jesus, as a
response of love to God in the knowledge He loved us first). Led by the
Spirit = following Jesus.

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
  (ESV)

That's not working but it is walking and it is being obedient to Jesus. The
Israelites through the Red Sea were being led by the Spirit - they were not
working for God as they walked in obedience:

  Galatians 5:16-18 - But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify
  the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the
  Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are
  opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.
  But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.

Song
youtube.com: Shane & Shane: I Will Wait For You {Psalm 130}

Jesus' disciples here were being led by Jesus. As I understand it, we're only
not guilty if we're trusting Jehovah God who justifies the ungodly by
trusting Jesus. Serving Jesus = Following Jesus. We've got to follow Jesus:

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 8:22 - And Jesus said to him, Follow me, and leave the dead to bury
  their own dead. (ESV)

  Luke 9:60 - And Jesus said to him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead.
  But as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God. (ESV)

Trusting Him who justifies the ungodly has noticeable fruit of following Him
because those who trust Him follow Him:

  Matthew 12:1-8 - At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the
  Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck heads of grain
  and to eat. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, Look, your
  disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. He said to
  them, Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, and those who
  were with him: how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the
  Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat nor for those who were
  with him, but only for the priests? Or have you not read in the Law how on
  the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are
  guiltless? I tell you, something greater than the temple is here. And if
  you had known what this means, I desire mercy, and not sacrifice, you would
  not have condemned the guiltless. For the Son of Man is lord of the
  Sabbath. (ESV)

As you can see, the disciples still generally followed the commandment to
rest on the Sabbath day:

  Luke 23:56 - Then they returned and prepared spices and ointments. On the
  Sabbath they rested according to the commandment. (ESV)

But Jesus is lord of the Sabbath:

  Mark 2:27-28 - And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man, not man
  for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath. (ESV)

Jesus will serve His servants who are awake:

  Luke 12:37 - Blessed are those servants whom the master finds awake when he
  comes. Truly, I say to you, he will dress himself for service and have them
  recline at table, and he will come and serve them. (ESV)

  Matthew 23:11 - The greatest among you shall be your servant. (ESV)

1.4.3. Notes for Chapter 9, paragraph 3

|  Paragraph 3
| 
|  Man, by his fall into a state of sin, has
|  wholly lost all ability of will to any
|  spiritual good accompanying salvation;4 so as
|  a natural man, being altogether averse from
|  that good, and dead in sin,5 is not able by
|  his own strength to convert himself, or to
|  prepare himself thereunto.6
|  
|   4 Rom. 5:6, 8:7
|   5 Eph. 2:1,5
|   6 Titus 3:3–5; John 6:44

I don't entirely agree with this paragraph saying all ability of will is lost
(I could be wrong). But I do believe that without God's assistance in drawing
us to Jesus, it is impossible for us to be saved.

  Isaiah 1:19 - If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of
  the land; (ESV)

Man's inability to do any spiritual good accompanying salvation is
essentially like a broken-down car's inability to drive and without God's
assistance by empowering us with His Holy Spirit (either inside or around
us), though a person might seek after God or will to repent, they're not able
to save themself.

  Acts 17:26-27 - And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on
  all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the
  boundaries of their dwelling place, that they should seek God, in the hope
  that they might feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he is actually
  not far from each one of us, (ESV)

So the problem in my opinion is not the will to do the will of God but the
ability to carry out the will of God.

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. (ESV)

  Matthew 7:7 - Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find;
  knock, and it will be opened to you. (ESV)

  Matthew 26:40-43 - And he came to the disciples and found them sleeping.
  And he said to Peter, So, could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and
  pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing,
  but the flesh is weak. Again, for the second time, he went away and prayed,
  My Father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it, your will be done. And
  again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. (ESV)

  Romans 7:16-18 - Now if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law, that
  it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within
  me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I
  have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out.
  (ESV)

1.4.4. Heidelberg Catechism

• https://www.crcna.org/welcome/beliefs/confessions/heidelberg-catechism

I affirm almost all of the Heidelberg Catechism. However, I see it as a
teaching resource, and not Scripture. Though, after doing the independent
Bible study below, I am pleasantly surprised to be in (from what I can
currently tell) almost full agreement with it, with some minor differences.
For example, when I read its logical statements such as "Q. What is the aim
of the tenth commandment? A. That not even the…", I think there's a bit more
to it.

Also, I believe that believer's baptism is Scriptural and should result in
following Jesus.

I link the Heidelberg Catechism here for others' reference. By all means read
the Heidelberg Catechism first.

Also, I think that Q&A 133 could more greatly emphasise that we should covet
God alone; that Jesus must be our #1 treasure, our Pearl of Great Price:

  Luke 12:15 - And he said to them, Take care, and be on your guard against
  all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his
  possessions. (ESV)

  Colossians 3:5 - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. (ESV)

|  Lord’s Day 44
|  Q&A 113
|  Q. What is the aim of the tenth commandment?
|  A. That not even the slightest desire or thought
|     contrary to any one of God’s commandments
|     should ever arise in our hearts.
| 
|     Rather, with all our hearts
|     we should always hate sin
|      and take pleasure in whatever is right.
|  
|   1 Ps. 19:7-14; 139:23-24; Rom 7:7-8

I may use the catechism to make adjustments to my theology document if I find
errors in my understanding.

2. My thoughts and bible references regarding theology

I've been thinking about belief, faith, works, law and receiving the Holy
Spirit! Please let me know what you think if you have the time.

I'm trying to get clearer on this. Please feel free to discuss it with me.

2.1. Bible versions used in this document

Almost all of verses are taken from the ESV (English Standard Version) bible
with the odd NASB (New American Standard Bible), KJV (King James Version),
and BSB (Berean Study Bible) used here and there.

I have also used the original Hebrew and Greek from the Interlinear Bible on
Biblehub.com a couple of times.

By default I will use the ESV and where it is not from the ESV, I have almost
certainly marked it with the alternative version used.

3. Being born-again

Billy Graham really explains this quite well
Born Again | Billy Graham Classic - YouTube @time: 10 min 50 sec

I believe we are set free from sin and from being condemned by / under the
Mosaic Law to become a slave to Christ Jesus under grace - a slave to
righteousness.

  Romans 6:20 - When you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to
  righteousness. (ESV)

  Romans 8:1-2 - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in
  Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ
  Jesus from the law of sin and death. (ESV)

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now having been freed from sin and enslaved to God,
  you derive your benefit, resulting in sanctification, and the outcome,
  eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is
  eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (NASB)

  Galatians 4:8 - Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to
  those that by nature are not gods. (ESV)

  Romans 6:18-20 - and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of
  righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. When you
  were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. (ESV)

We are saved while believing in the name of Jesus of Nazareth, the only Son
of God:

  John 3:18 - Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not
  believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of
  the only Son of God. (ESV)

And brought into doing the will of God:

  Romans 15:17-18 - In Christ Jesus, then, I have reason to be proud of my
  work for God. For I will not venture to speak of anything except what
  Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience—by
  word and deed,

  Job 22:24-26 - if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the
  stones of the torrent bed, then the Almighty will be your gold and your
  precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and
  lift up your face to God. (ESV)

God wants us to love Him, treasure Him (25. agapaó), value Him with all our
heart, and love and value and treasure one another (25. agapaó) as ourselves
youtube.com: What Is It Like to Enjoy God? @time: 35 min 16 sec

Yeah, I agree with John Piper, for the most part. Loving God is not actually
first working for God. But it is to truly desire God, and treasure Him (25.
agapaó), and treasure His word, and treasure His commandments, to give Him
due praise, and to honour God, and give Him the glory, to love Him in the
affectionate and treasuring sense is what God wants of us, and Jesus says
that if we love Him then we will keep His commandments. Where John Piper says
'affectionate love comes before obedience', I prefer to say that 'treasuring
God includes a heart of obedience, trust, belief, desiring God, and
affectionate love' and I also think that obedience (being in the will of God)
may produce work for God but doesn't strictly mean work. We want to keep His
commandments so I believe we should treasure God with all our heart. God also
commands us to love one another as ourselves, so we should also love and
value other people with that same treasuring love, but God wants Him to be
our number one treasure, and I think we have to make God our number one love.

God wants Him to be our treasure. We must obey Jesus and Jehovah Jireh will
provide:

I have also had a lot of suffering as I keep a good conscience with God,
having been obedient to Him.

  I Timothy 1:3-5 - As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at
  Ephesus that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different
  doctrine, nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies, which
  promote speculations rather than the stewardship from God that is by faith.
  The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good
  conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:18-20 - This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in
  accordance with the prophecies previously made about you, that by them you
  may wage the good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience. By
  rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith, among whom are
  Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may
  learn not to blaspheme. (ESV)

But a good conscience with God remaining obedient to Him, enduring suffering
and continuing to be faithful to God, and keeping the commandments of Jesus
Christ while feeling like a zombie having what you love stolen from you by
the enemy - this is still love for God to continue keeping the commandments
of Jesus Christ.

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

youtube.com: Especially for someone who is feeling downcast - Lamentations 3:
22-23 | 29th September @time: 14 sec

The book of Lamentations is unlikely to be the most popular book in the
Bible, and the reason for this is it's a book of laments. It's written round
about the time of the Babylonian exile and it's it's written from the point
of view of someone who has lost everything and doesn't hold back in how he
feels about this. But nevertheless, if you look hard enough, you'll find that
the book of Lamentations does contain some nuggets of pure, pure gold, and
this week's verses are a case in point.

They help us show the difference it can make if we focus our eyes not so much
on what we have lost but on what we still have. If all we do is focus on our
eyes on all that we have lost, the result will be a soul that is downcast.
Whereas, if we remember to focus on what we still have, the result is a soul
that still has hope for better times to come.

  Lamentations 3:19-23 - Remember my affliction and my wanderings, the
  wormwood and the gall! My soul continually remembers it and is bowed down
  within me. But this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope: The
  steadfast love of the LORD never ceases; his mercies never come to an end;
  they are new every morning; great is your faithfulness. (ESV)

Consider Job. Obedience is in the heart, along with belief in the Truth and
understanding of the gospel. Obedience can exist without work. Jesus said,
"The spirit is indeed willing but the flesh is weak."

  Matthew 26:41 - Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The
  spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. (ESV)

Some people endure great suffering for serving God. Our obedience to God,
having accepted Jesus, and passing forward love and forgiveness, is having a
heart close to Jesus through keeping Jesus' commandments - see I John 4, John
14,15,16 and 17. Now having affections for God is great, but joy can exist
alongside . Having a good conscience with God is great. John Piper I think
incorrectly says just after 9:39 here that loving Jesus cannot mean obedience
to Jesus' commands in this verse. We have to remain faithful to Jesus above
all, I think. For the sake of making testimony of Jesus to those who are in
darkness, for example. To bear the reproach that Jesus did for the sake of
Jesus and His gospel. To remain obedient to the Truth as things are taken
away from you, like what happened to Job - this is still love for God, but
God wants us to treasure Him more than anything.

As I understand it, I John 5:2-3 isn't saying that God's commandments are
universally unburdensome to all people. It's saying that when we love God
then keeping His commandments is unburdensome. If we're struggling with
keeping the commandments of God and struggling with sin then we should make
Him our number one love heart's desire and treasure and seek Him first with
all our heart and we will be able to find His commandments unburdensome! It's
true.

I feel like I could still say, "Loving God is obedience to God," but I would
rather rephrase it as, "God in His love gifted me to be able to love Him back
and live. I can see in retrospect He had been working in my life and it's
awesome and magnificent and I just want to cherish and obey God now, and God
made the way for me to do that!"

  John 16:27-28 - for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me
  and have believed that I came from God. I came from the Father and have
  come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the
  Father. (ESV)

We have confidence when we keep His commandments, believing in the name of
God's Son Jesus Christ and loving one another and our heart doesn't condemn
us:

  I John 3:21-24 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment,
  that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another,
  just as he has commanded us. Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him,
  and he in them. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit
  whom he has given us. (ESV)

When the apostles said that Jesus rose again, they meant that his physical
body came back to life. The risen Jesus wasn't a phantom or ghost, but a
breakfast-eating, flesh-and-bone, human being. This is gospel Truth:

  Luke 24:36-43 - As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself
  stood among them, and said to them, Peace to you! But they were startled
  and frightened and thought they saw a spirit. And he said to them, Why are
  you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my
  feet, that it is I myself. Touch me, and see. For a spirit does not have
  flesh and bones as you see that I have. And when he had said this, he
  showed them his hands and his feet. And while they still disbelieved for
  joy and were marveling, he said to them, Have you anything here to eat?
  They gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate before them.
  (ESV)

  John 21:10-14 - Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have
  just caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of
  large fish, 153 of them. And although there were so many, the net was not
  torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the
  disciples dared ask him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord. Jesus came
  and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish. This was now
  the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised
  from the dead. (ESV)

Holding the mystery of the faith (believing the Truth, believing Jesus,
holding faith in Jesus, believing the gospel Truth and the facts about Jesus
) with a clear conscience, we serve Christ:

  I Timothy 3:9-13 - They must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear
  conscience. And let them also be tested first; then let them serve as
  deacons if they prove themselves blameless. Their wives likewise must be
  dignified, not slanderers, but sober-minded, faithful in all things. Let
  deacons each be the husband of one wife, managing their children and their
  own households well. For those who serve well as deacons gain a good
  standing for themselves and also great confidence in the faith that is in
  Christ Jesus. (ESV)

God desires all people to be saved, coming to a knowledge of the Truth (not
without coming to a knowledge of the Truth), ceasing to do the will of the
devil (not without ceasing to do the will of the devil):

  I Timothy 2:3-6 - This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God our
  Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of
  the truth. For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and
  men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is
  the testimony given at the proper time. (ESV)

We agape love even the people who are lost in the hope that God will grant
them repentance to life, leading to a knowledge of the Truth, that they might
cease to do the devil's will. Make no mistake, spreading dangerous heresy
about Jesus Christ is the devil's will. So we hope that God grants the
heretics repentance to come to a knowledge of the Truth, to be sanctified in
the Truth. Jesus Christ is the Son of God and is the Word of God and is God's
revelation of Himself to us and is the Bread of Life. Amen:

  II Timothy 2:24-26 - And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but
  kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his
  opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to
  a knowledge of the truth, and they may escape from the snare of the devil,
  after being captured by him to do his will. (ESV)

God's mercy is ultimately not dependent on human will, but on God who has
mercy to grant us repentance to Life:

  Romans 9:15-16 - For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have
  mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then it
  depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy. (ESV)

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of faith.
God grants us repentance:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Delirious? - Touch

We end up thinking in a similar fashion to Jesus:

  I Corinthians 2:16 - For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to
  instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:5-7 - Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in
  Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality
  with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form
  of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. (ESV)

Jesus was self-humbling and obedient to God, and we end up thinking this way:

  Philippians 2:8 - And being found in human form, he humbled himself by
  becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. (ESV)

We become enslaved to righteousness in Christ, not enslaved to corruption,
but through persevering obedience to Jesus, we consolidate walking in the
light, in obedience and faith to Jesus and we are conformed to practicing
righteousness, walking as He walked:

  II Peter 2:19 - They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves
  of corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved.
  (ESV)

  I John 2:6 - whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in
  which he walked. (ESV)

We become conformed to Christ's image practicing righteousness - doing works
of righteousness which are done in faith in Him:

  Romans 8:29 - For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be
  conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn
  among many brothers. (ESV)

  I John 3:7-8 - Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of
  sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning.
  The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil.
  (ESV)

In Christ Jesus there is freedom from things which were bad for us, including
selfishness, condemnation, slavery to sin and death, and feeling like we're
not good enough for God. There is freedom from anything that tries to hinder
us from obeying God in truth:

  I Peter 2:16 - Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a
  cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:1-6 - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore,
  and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look: I, Paul, say to you
  that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I
  testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to
  keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified
  by the law; you have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by
  faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in
  Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything,
  but only faith working through love. (ESV)

We are freed from, for example, making the worries of the world our first
thought in the day such as thinking always in terms of "will I have enough
money, for example", to instead, with the Holy Spirit in us, thinking
correctly, having joy in being able to live out the great commandments in
actuality, to be able to love God, I believe with our whole heart, soul, mind
and strength and to love our neighbour as ourselves, and as we abide in Jesus
Christ, focused on Jesus as our Pearl of Great Price, obeying God in word and
deed, passing-forward Christ's love to others, the blood of Jesus cleanses us
from all sin:

  II Corinthians 3:17 - Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of
  the Lord is, there is freedom. (ESV)

youtube.com: Toward Need, Not Comfort: The Blood-Bought Path of the Good
Samaritan
Father, I ask now that [in this room] you would put all of us onto the
blood-bought path that leads to eternal life, the path of love, the path
where we move toward need, not comfort.

youtube.com: God Is Our Savior from What? 1 Timothy 1:1-2, Part 2 @time: 2
min 33 sec

Salvation? Savior? From what? There's a whole world view implied in that word
'Savior' that many people do not grasp at all. Unbelievers don't know what
they need to be saved from.

…

One of the things we're saved from is this awful bent towards sinning.

Without blood atonement, corruption gets progressively worse and we perish:

  Hebrews 9:22 - Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with
  blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.
  (ESV)

Our salvation looks like being cleaned up by His spirit, behaving in a way
now reflecting that we have knowledge of God (i.e. godliness), and not
worldliness, treasuring God and one another, and letting go of
treasuring/valuing worldly things, with hope for eternal life:

  Titus 2:11-13 - For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for
  all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and
  to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,
  waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God
  and Savior Jesus Christ, (ESV)

  Titus 3:3-7 - For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray,
  slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and
  envy, hated by others and hating one another. But when the goodness and
  loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of
  works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the
  washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out
  on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by
  his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
  (ESV)

We're supposed to arrive at doing the will of God from the heart, loving one
another in peace:

  I Timothy 2:1-4 - First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers,
  intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all
  who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life,
  godly and dignified in every way. This is good, and it is pleasing in the
  sight of God our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to
  the knowledge of the truth. (ESV)

We must embrace sanctification:

  Romans 6:20-23 - When you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to
  righteousness. But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things
  of which you are now ashamed? The end of those things is death. But now
  that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the
  fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the
  wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ
  Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Jesus All for Jesus {Lyrics}

Lyrics
Jesus, all for Jesus; All I am and have and ever hope to be; All of my
ambitions, hopes and plans; I surrender these into your hands; For it's only
in your will that I am free;

I believe this. If anyone is trusting that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of
God, then they have life in His name. That doesn't mean they have come to
know Him yet. But if they have just begun to trust that Jesus is the Christ,
they have started on their journey to get to know Him. They are an infant in
Christ:

  John 20:31 - but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is
  the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his
  name. (ESV)

We must get on the path of having faith in Jesus, believe in the name of
Jesus, God's Son, and obey God to have confidence:

  Proverbs 10:17 - Whoever heeds instruction is on the path to life, but he
  who rejects reproof leads others astray. (ESV)

  I John 3:21-22 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
Christ by his death and resurrection dealt a decisive defeating blow against
Satan, he cannot destroy you except by tempting you to distrust Jesus and
walk in sin. Believe in the triumph that you already have - down payment by
the spirit in your life and walk in this victory.

As we hold our faith in God, we understand that He loved us first. As we hold
our faith in God, we draw closer to God as we practice Christ's love towards
others:

  I John 4:8-11 - Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is
  love. In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his
  only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. In this is
  love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to
  be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also
  ought to love one another.

  Ephesians 2:10 - For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for
  good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
  (ESV)

While obedience exists in the heart, as belief does, as faith is believing
and obedient trust, works are the actions we do out of that obedience, that
love for Jesus, and out of ongoing believing, obedient faith, out of
obedience to the Holy Spirit. Doing the will of God isn't "work", but is a
just mode of walking. It's a mode of walking that is different from doing the
will of satan. Satan is not God's equal and opposite.

  John 3:36 - The [one] believing (G4100 pisteuōn) in the Son has life
  eternal; the [one] however not obeying (apeithōn) the Son not will see life
  but the wrath - of God abides on him (Interlinear)

We need a trusting, obedient heart. It's not just about obeying one point of
belief in Jesus, but about having a heart which believes Jesus, trusts Jesus,
obeys Jesus, and accepting Him and His words.

|  3588      4100      1519 3588    5207  2192     2222  166
|  ho        pisteuōn  eis  ton     Huion echei    zōēn  aiōnion
|  ὁ         πιστεύων  εἰς  τὸν     Υἱὸν  ἔχει     ζωὴν  αἰώνιον  ;
|  The [one] believing in   the     Son   has      life  eternal
|  Art-NMS   V-PPA-NMS Prep Art-AMS N-AMS V-PIA-3S N-AFS Adj-AFS
| 
|  3588      1161     544         3588     5207   3756 3708
|  ho        de       apeithōn    tō       Huiō   ouk  opsetai
|  ὁ         δὲ       ἀπειθῶν     τῷ       Υἱῷ  , οὐκ  ὄψεται
|   the [one] however  not obeying the      Son    not  will see
|   Art-NMS   Conj     V-PPA-NMS   Art-DMS  N-DMS  Adv  V-FIM-3S
|  
|   2222    235  3588    3709  3588    2316   3306     1909 846
|   zōēn    all’ hē      orgē  tou     Theou  menei    ep’  auton
|   ζωήν  , ἀλλ’ ἡ       ὀργὴ  τοῦ     Θεοῦ   μένει    ἐπ’  αὐτόν  .
|   life    but  the     wrath  -      of God abides   on   him
|   N-AFS   Conj Art-NFS N-NFS Art-GMS N-GMS  V-PIA-3S Prep PPro-AM3S

The reason Abraham's faith was counted as righteousness is because no
distrust made him waver (Abraham faithfully trusted God regarding the
promise). Abraham believed God was able to do what He had promised. So a good
indicator that Abraham was totally trusting of God is that Abraham walked in
the promise of God. I think the most important takeaway from this is that
faith is trusting, even if our trusting faith may waver, our faith
intrinsically is trusting of God, and trust naturally elicits both belief and
obedience:

  Romans 4:20-22 - No distrust (apistia) made him waver concerning the
  promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,
  fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why
  his faith was counted to him as righteousness. (ESV)

And the obedience doesn't end. We continue to be sanctified through faith. We
are saved from darkness, believing the word of God, and in obedience we are
saved from sinning and try to fulfill the Royal Law, and even using our
freedom in Christ to do good works that are pleasing to God:

  Titus 3:8 - The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these
  things, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote
  themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for
  people. (ESV)

Talk by
John Lennox - How Christianity Is Different From Every Religion - YouTube

youtube.com: John Lennox: How do I choose which religion to follow? @time: 8
min 12 sec

You've heard about my wife. Well, over fifty years ago, I saw this vision in
Cambridge, so I decided I'd like to marry her. So I came to her one day and I
had a little present wrapped up for her. It was a cookbook. So I said, "I'd
like to marry you, Sally. Now the condition would be this: Let's look at page
147 - it's apple cake, and here are the laws for making apple cake. Thou
shalt take some what's flour, thou shall take some what sugar, and there you
are. Now, here's the way it's gonna be: If you keep these laws for the next
forty years, I think about accepting you. If you don't, you can go back to
your mother."

But, look why are you laughing? That is what many of you sitting here think
about God. And you would never insult a fellow human being by basing a
relationship on merit. You wouldn't. And so my marriage, it's been good, why?
Because my wife is not cooking in order to gain my acceptance. She likes
cooking because she's got it. And the wonderful thing about Christianity is
precisely that. It's not religion in that sense, it's a relationship.

Amen to that.

Christianity is a relationship, like a marriage:

• Acceptance comes at the beginning; Jesus gives us the benefit of the
doubt. Just start serving Jesus
• We must still forgive and love our family in Christ. This isn't
'work', but it is obedience, and it is a required heart attitude
• Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and
approved by men. (ESV)
• Salvation is based on Jesus' merit but also on our working-out of that
free salvation gift with hope, faith, repentance and obedience
• We must have a response of love for Jesus
• John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is
who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I
will love him and manifest myself to him. (ESV)
• John 16:27 - for the Father himself loves you, because you have
loved me and have believed that I came from God. (ESV)
• In whatever we do, we should be serving the Lord Jesus Christ
• I Corinthians 10:31 - So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you
do, do all to the glory of God. (ESV)
• Colossians 3:17 - And whatever you do, in word or deed, do
everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the
Father through him. (ESV)
• I Corinthians 16:14 - Let all that you do be done in love. (ESV)
• Romans 12:9 - Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to
what is good. (ESV)

  Proverbs 3:5-6 - Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not lean on
  your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make
  straight your paths. (ESV)

Belief in Jesus Christ continues in obedience, and imitating Christ as we
continue trusting Him and in Him:

  John 14:12 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also
  do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I
  am going to the Father. (ESV)

It's imperative that we continue in obedience to abide by the Lord Jesus'
teachings, and that includes repentance from sin because He taught us to turn
from our sin:

  Colossians 3:23-25 - Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and
  not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as
  your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. For the wrongdoer will be
  paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality.

  Psalms 119:11 - I have stored up your word in my heart, that I might not
  sin against you. (ESV)

We must forgive each other:

  Colossians 3:13 - bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint
  against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you
  also must forgive. (ESV)

We must love our brother and our sister in Christ. It's imperative that we
follow Jesus Christ's teachings and commandments:

  I John 4:20-21 - If anyone says, I love God, and hates his brother, he is a
  liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God
  whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves
  God must also love his brother. (ESV)

Jesus is our brother - He is not ashamed to call those brothers who He
sanctifies:

gotquestions.org Jesus-our-brother.html: Is Jesus our brother? |
GotQuestions.org

  Hebrews 2:11 - For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have
  one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, (ESV)

  Romans 8:29 - For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be
  conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn
  among many brothers. (ESV)

  Mark 3:34-35 - And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, Here
  are my mother and my brothers! Whoever does the will of God, he is my
  brother and sister and mother. (ESV)

  Galatians 4:4-5 - But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth
  his Son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under
  the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 15:20-23 - But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead,
  the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man came
  death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam
  all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. But each in his own
  order: Christ the firstfruits, then at his coming those who belong to
  Christ. (ESV)

The will of Father God is for us to love, trust and obey His Son Jesus
Christ:

  II Thessalonians 1:8 - in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who
  do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus.
  (ESV)

  Romans 2:7-8 - to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and
  honor and immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are
  self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there
  will be wrath and fury. (ESV)

I confess that Jesus is the Son of God, and I believe that God loved us first
and that we must love God and love one another:

  I John 4:15 - Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in
  him, and he in God. (ESV)

Someone who has just put their faith in Jesus for the first time and is
believing that Jesus is the Christ is a newborn Christian:

  I John 5:1 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. (ESV)

The Jesus which the Apostles proclaimed is the same Jesus we need to proclaim
in Church - so Jesus' teachings should be taught right along with the gospel
and along with all that the prophets have spoken which relate to Jesus:

  II Corinthians 11:4 - For if someone comes and proclaims another Jesus than
  the one we proclaimed, or if you receive a different spirit from the one
  you received, or if you accept a different gospel from the one you
  accepted, you put up with it readily enough. (ESV)

Talk by John Piper
youtube.com: You Cannot Obey God Without God

It's imperative that as we go ahead, we must abide in the teaching of Christ,
or we won't have God (Jehovah God), and God is love and love comes from God,
so we need to abide in Christ's teachings, by belief and by obedience. For
example, in Mark 10:18, Jesus affirmed that God is Good. Therefore when we
read this, we must also be sanctified by this truth, affirming and coming
into agreement that God is Good. Also, Jesus commanded us to love one another
as He loved us John 13:34-35:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

Jesus said to these believers that if they abide in His word (and I believe
that means keep His word, even in obedience), they are His disciples - so a
person can be a believer before they are a disciple. But we're supposed to
make this transition:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

Don't stop believing. We must continue trusting and believing the Truth to be
saved:

  Luke 8:12 - The ones along the path are those who have heard. Then the
  devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not
  believe and be saved. (ESV)

Be grounded in the Truth and able to overcome testing / trial / tribulation:

  Luke 8:13 - And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the
  word, receive it with joy. But these have no root; they believe for a
  while, and in time of testing fall away. (ESV)

Continue walking in the light, and does not go back to falling in love with
the world. (i.e. they gave up earthly treasure, and in doing so stored up
heavenly treasure, and go after Jesus, their Pearl of Great Price), trusting,
believing and obeying Jesus:

  Luke 8:14 - And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear,
  but as they go on their way they are choked by the cares and riches and
  pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature. (ESV)

Holding fast in faith, out of an honest and good heart, bear good fruit
including works of righteousness, even remaining steadfast through trial and
tribulation:

  Luke 8:15 - As for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the
  word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and bear fruit with
  patience. (ESV)

Quote from John Piper
If God in fact in his grace and power enables us to do things that are good,
He is going to reward them, not ignore them. He's going to say, "Well done
good and faithful servant (Matthew 25:21). Works of Faith are going to be
rewarded, not thrown away as filthy rags.

  II Corinthians 5:10 - For we must all appear before the judgment seat of
  Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in
  the body, whether good or evil. (ESV)

God considers being obedient from a forgiven heart, trusting in Jesus, to
faithful service:

  Matthew 25:23 - His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful
  servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much.
  Enter into the joy of your master. (ESV)

Quote from John Piper
He bought us by grace, he sustains us by grace, he enables us to do good
works by grace and we do the works trusting that grace.

  Ephesians 6:8 - knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will
  receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or free. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:36 - For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done
  the will of God you may receive what is promised. (ESV)

  Luke 6:45 - The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces
  good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure produces evil, for out
  of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks. (ESV)

Bearing fruit looks like "walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing
to him, bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of
God".

  Colossians 1:3-12 - We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus
  Christ, when we pray for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus
  and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid
  up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the
  truth, the gospel, which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world it
  is bearing fruit and growing—as it also does among you, since the day you
  heard it and understood the grace of God in truth, just as you learned it
  from Epaphras our beloved fellow servant. He is a faithful minister of
  Christ on your behalf and has made known to us your love in the Spirit. And
  so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that
  you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom
  and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully
  pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the
  knowledge of God. May you be strengthened with all power, according to his
  glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to
  the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints
  in light. (ESV)

Right after the parable of the soil, Jesus says this:

  Luke 8:21 - But he answered them, My mother and my brothers are those who
  hear the word of God and do it. (ESV)

Bear good fruit to prove to be a disciple of Jesus:

  John 15:8 - By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so
  prove to be my disciples. (ESV)

People will recognise we are Jesus' disciples by the love we have for one
another:

  John 13:35 - By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you
  have love for one another. (ESV)

Jesus is the Rock:

  I Corinthians 10:4 - and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank
  from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. (ESV)

Belief is important (and is an initial act of obedience):

  Matthew 16:15-18 - He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon
  Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus
  answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not
  revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you
  are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell
  shall not prevail against it. (ESV)

Obedience is important:

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

Our obedience is not without trust. We obey because we trust God - we obey
out of faith in God:

  Jeremiah 17:5-8 - Thus says the LORD: Cursed is the man who trusts in man
  and makes flesh his strength, whose heart turns away from the LORD. He is
  like a shrub in the desert, and shall not see any good come. He shall dwell
  in the parched places of the wilderness, in an uninhabited salt land.
  Blessed is the man who trusts in the LORD, whose trust is the LORD. He is
  like a tree planted by water, that sends out its roots by the stream, and
  does not fear when heat comes, for its leaves remain green, and is not
  anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit. (ESV)

Our obedience is in the heart. We want to obey because we love Jesus (we will
to):

  Luke 10:25-37 - And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test,
  saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said to him,
  What is written in the Law? How do you read it? And he answered, You shall
  love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with
  all your strength and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself.
  And he said to him, You have answered correctly; do this, and you will
  live. But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my
  neighbor? Jesus replied, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho,
  and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and departed,
  leaving him half dead. Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and
  when he saw him he passed by on the other side. So likewise a Levite, when
  he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a
  Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he
  had compassion. He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and
  wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took
  care of him. And the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the
  innkeeper, saying, Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, I will
  repay you when I come back. Which of these three, do you think, proved to
  be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers? He said, The one who
  showed him mercy. And Jesus said to him, You go, and do likewise. (ESV)

|  2036     25             2962       3588     2316
|  eipen    Agapēseis      Kyrion     ton      Theon
|  εἶπεν  , Ἀγαπήσεις      Κύριον     τὸν      Θεόν
|  he said  You shall love [the] Lord the      God
|  V-AIA-3S V-FIA-2S       N-AMS      Art-AMS  N-AMS
|          +-------+
|  4771    |1537   | 3650     3588     2588     4771
|  sou     |ex  <--+ holēs    tēs      kardias  sou
|  σου     |ἐξ     | ὅλης     τῆς      καρδίας  σου  ,
|   of you  |with   | all      the      heart    of you
|   PPro-G2S|Prep   | Adj-GFS  Art-GFS  N-GFS    PPro-G2S
|           +-------+
|   2532    |1722   | 3650     3588     5590     4771
|   kai     |en     | holē     tē       psychē   sou
|   καὶ     |ἐν     | ὅλῃ      τῇ       ψυχῇ     σου  ,
|   and     |with   | all      the      soul     of you
|   Conj    |Prep   | Adj-DFS  Art-DFS  N-DFS    PPro-G2S
|           |       |
|   2532    |1722   | 3650     3588     2479     4771
|   kai     |en     | holē     tē       ischui   sou
|   καὶ     |ἐν     | ὅλῃ      τῇ       ἰσχύϊ    σου  ,
|   and     |with   | all      the      strength of you
|   Conj    |Prep   | Adj-DFS  Art-DFS  N-DFS    PPro-G2S
|           |       |
|   2532    |1722   | 3650     3588     1271     4771
|   kai     |en     | holē     tē       dianoia  sou
|   καὶ     |ἐν     | ὅλῃ      τῇ       διανοίᾳ  σου
|   and     |with   | all      the      mind     of you
|   Conj    |Prep   | Adj-DFS  Art-DFS  N-DFS    PPro-G2S
|           |       |
|   2532    |3588   | 4139     4771     5613     4572
|   kai     |Ton    | plēsion  sou      hōs      seauton
|   καὶ     |Τὸν    | πλησίον  σου      ὡς       σεαυτόν  .
|   and     |The    | neighbor of you   as       yourself
|   Conj    |Art-AMS| Adv      PPro-G2S Adv      PPro-AM2S
|           +-------+

youtube.com: The Joy of the Puritans

Love for God is from the heart. Now, Luke's version of the great commandment
gives a clue that that's the case. Luke's version: Just to read it now in the
ESV, the lawyer expresses this and Jesus approves it, "You shall love the
Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your
strength, with all your mind" but that translation isn't exactly right.
Because those four prepositional phrases in the English are all the same, and
in Greek they're not. The first one heart has a different preposition than
the other three. It has the preposition EX "from or out-of" and the others
are all EN "in or with/by".

So literally I would say it goes like this, "You shall love the Lord your God
from (or out of) your heart, with your soul, and with your strength and with
your mind." Now, why does that matter?

That's a clue, that's a that's a hint that the human heart is unique in its
role that it plays in loving God.

Quote by John Piper
The essence of love is heart work, not mind work.

AMEN.

We learn Christ, and are taught by Christ (becoming obedient to His teachings
and commandments) while we are in Him:

  Ephesians 4:20-21 - But that is not the way you learned Christ!— assuming
  that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in
  Jesus, (ESV)

Therefore, even before I was noticeably "born-again of the water and the
Spirit" in 2022, I had begun to try to practice Jesus' commandments in
2020/2021 in an effort to seek God, Jesus must have been already working in
me, but I say this to explain how I believe that it might be quite hard to
pinpoint the starting point, but we know that it's God's grace through faith
(believing, obedient, trusting faith) that it happens, but that doesn't mean
believing and obeying Jesus are not important to receive the Holy Spirit,
because they are.

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

By His grace we have to actually come into obeying Jesus to find life. Think
about what it means to obey Jesus: It's to walk in the Spirit, to abide in
Jesus' Spirit, to be obeying Jesus' commandments, to seek to follow the
pattern of life that He lived to be found in Him. You can abide in Jesus'
Spirit if you have faith in Him, believing in Him, believing, trusting and
obeying Him, knowing Him, and being found in Him!

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

Faith in Christ I believe means believing in Him and being obedient to Him,
having communion with Him, etc. becoming intimate with Him, following Him.
This isn't our own merit, but we still obey Jesus to be found in Him. In Him
we have Jesus' righteousness:

  Matthew 16:25 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever
  loses his life for my sake will find it. (ESV)

And we should be building each other up, helping each other attain unity of
faith and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God:

  Ephesians 4:12-13 - to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for
  building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the
  faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the
  measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, (ESV)

It's unity in faith and truth and love:

  Colossians 3:14 - Beyond all (G3956 pas) these things put on love (G26
  agape), which (G3739 hos) is the perfect bond of unity.

  John 17:23 - I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one,
  so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you
  loved me. (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:13 - Follow the pattern of the sound words that you have heard
  from me, in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

Being prone to stir up division, particularly over foolish controversies, is
bad. Rather, we want unity in faith, love and Truth. The Truth does matter:

  Titus 3:10-11 - The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on
  these things, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to
  devote themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable
  for people. But avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and
  quarrels about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. As for a
  person who stirs up division (141. hairetikos), after warning him once and
  then twice, have nothing more to do with him, knowing that such a person is
  warped and sinful; he is self-condemned. (ESV)

• 141. hairetikos:: Definition: causing division. Usage: disposed to form
sects, sectarian, heretical, factious.

We must agape love God, and our family in Christ and called to agape love
even our enemies - How Christians agape love:

Agape is definitely a treasuring love. God is worth infinitely more than
anything. God must be our first agape. People are worth infinitely more than
chatbots or anything worldly, for example.

26 (agápē) typically refers to divine love (= what God prefers).

See where else this word used to describe agape love is used:

• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/1_john/2-15.htm
• https://biblehub.com/greek/agapa_25.htm
• https://biblehub.com/greek/agapate_25.htm
• https://biblehub.com/greek/26.htm

Agape-love can be misplaced. We go from agape-loving (treasuring, valuing)
darkness to agape-loving (treasuring, valuing) light:

  John 3:16-20 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God
  did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that
  the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not
  condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he
  has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the
  judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved (25. agapaó)
  the darkness rather than the light (5457. phós) because their deeds were
  evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come
  to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed. (ESV)

Genuine agape loves the light. The Truth of God is light and is good and is
not wicked:

  Romans 12:9 - Let love (G26 agapé) be genuine (G505 anupokritos). Abhor
  what is evil; hold fast to what is good. (ESV)

Thus so (Houtōs) (in this way) did God love (25. agapaó - value,treasure) the
world, that He gave His Only-Begotten (G3439. monogenēs - unique,only
begotten) Son that (G2443 hina - in order that) everyone who is
trusting/believing in Him may not perish, but may have life everlasting:

biblehub.com 3-16.htm: John 3:16 Interlinear: for God did so love the world,
that His Son – the only begotten – He gave, that every one who is believing
in him may not perish, but may have life age-during.

Who Christians must agape love:

• God (Father God, Jesus Christ and Holy Spirit)
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/1_john/2-15.htm
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/matthew/22-37.htm
• Matthew 22:37 - And He said to him You shall love (25 Agapēseis)
[the] Lord the God of you with all the heart of you and with all the
soul of you and with all the mind of you (Interlinear)
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/john/14-23.htm
• Your spouse
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/ephesians/5-28.htm
• Others in Christ
• Colossians 3:14 - And above all these put on love (26. agapé), which
binds everything together in perfect harmony. (ESV)

Who Christians are called to agape love:

• All people, even enemies
• https://biblehub.com/greek/agapa_25.htm
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/matthew/5-44.htm

What Christians must not agape love:

• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/1_john/2-15.htm

Agape love must not be to anything of the world:

Book
timothykeller.com: Counterfeit Gods - Timothy Keller

Sermon
youtube.com: Counterfeit Gods - Tim Keller

Agape-ing things of this world is worldly-mindedness and makes it very
difficult to discern the will of God:

  Luke 11:43 - Woe to you Pharisees! For you love (agapate) the best seat in
  the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces. (ESV)

youtube.com: Petra - Beyond Belief @time: 29 min 43 sec

I've been looking over your recent stats. You're going to have to run well in
this one, guy. yes sir. We still think you've got potential. The scholarship
could be yours, but you're going to have to really want it. I do sir. Good,
cuz as far as your concerned this race is the most important thing in your
life. Be out there in 30 minutes.

Danny, can I ask you something? Sure. When you grow up and move away, would
you still be my brother? Chad, you can't change that. You think you'll forget
about us? How can I forget about you? You're my brother. Hey, tell you what,
I've been wanting to give this to you for a long time. As God is our witness,
brothers forever. Woww. okay boys, let's settle down. Dad, can I ask you
something? Sure, pal. When we grow up and move away, will you still be my
dad? I'll always be your dad and that'll never change. Do you promise? Son,
the most important thing in our our Lives is that we always love each other.
Now, you remember that, okay? Okay boys, prayers.

It's not just about agape loving our neighbour / other people. We must agape
love (treasure, value) God too and that means remembering His name and His
Son and His words. This is an absolute must. The gospel still needs to be
preached:

  Psalms 9:17 - The wicked shall return to Sheol, all the nations that forget
  God. (ESV)

Lord of Eternity - Fernando Ortega (Live)
Lord of Eternity; Blessed is the man; Who walks in Your favor; Who loves all
Your words; And hides them like treasure; In the darkest place; Of his
desperate heart, They are a light; A strong, sure light.

Those who will to agape love God must also will to love his brother or they
are not loving God:

  I Peter 1:8 - Though you have not seen him, you love (G25 agapate) him.
  Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that
  is inexpressible and filled with glory, (ESV)

  I John 4:20-21 - If anyone says, I love God, and hates his brother, he is a
  liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God
  whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves
  (G25 agapōn) God must also love (G25 agapa) his brother. (ESV)

  John 20:29 - Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me?
  Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. (ESV)

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

OK, so we accept forgiveness from God, we forgive others, and we then walk in
that reality and don't turn back - we live that reality out. We accept that
God has loved us by making atonement through Jesus' blood, and then we
pass-forward that loving forgiveness to others and we walk in that reality
and don't turn back.

  II Corinthians 4:11-12 - For we who live are always being given over to
  death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in
  our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you. (ESV)

We must have faith in Jesus to be justified by faith. I believe the finished
work of Christ is enough, but that God is still working, His grace extending
through faithful obedience to Jesus, Jesus grace reaches more people:

  II Corinthians 4:11-15 - For we who live are always being given over to
  death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in
  our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you. Since we have
  the same spirit of faith according to what has been written, I believed,
  and so I spoke, we also believe, and so we also speak, knowing that he who
  raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you
  into his presence. For it is all for your sake, so that as grace extends to
  more and more people it may increase thanksgiving, to the glory of God.
  (ESV)

We also try to live holy lives - be holy as He is Holy.

We put on Christ:

  Galatians 3:27-28 - For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have
  put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor
  free, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ
  Jesus. (ESV)

When the day of judgement comes, we must have accepted forgiveness from God,
or face the wrath of God:

  Romans 4:7-8 - Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not
  count his sin. (ESV)

When the day of judgement comes, we should be loving our brother and sister
in Christ, or we may face the wrath of God:

  I John 4:17-21 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear
  has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in
  love. We love because he first loved us. If anyone says, I love God, and
  hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom
  he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. And this commandment we
  have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother. (ESV)

Our sins are forgiven and we love one another the way Christ loved us. It
should be our aim to have arrived at this point where we are living in this
reality as soon as possible:

  I John 2:11-12 - But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks
  in the darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness
  has blinded his eyes. I am writing to you, little children, because your
  sins are forgiven for his name's sake. (ESV)

If we are merciful then we will receive mercy:

  Matthew 5:7 - Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.

  James 2:13 - For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy.
  Mercy triumphs over judgment.

To get to know Jesus, we must obey His commandments:

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

Belief leads to obedience which leads to knowledge of the truth:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

Eternal life is knowing God and Jesus Christ who He has sent:

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

We need to take hold of it:

  I Timothy 6:12 - Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the
  eternal life to which you were called and about which you made the good
  confession in the presence of many witnesses. (ESV)

In order to know God we must love one another in the way that God has loved
us:

  I John 4:7-12 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love
  does not know God, because God is love. In this the love of God was made
  manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we
  might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God but
  that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
  Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has
  ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is
  perfected in us. (ESV)

We live through the life of Jesus in this intellectual and experiential
knowledge - a bit like an umbilical cord:

  I John 4:8-11 - Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is
  love. In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his
  only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. In this is
  love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to
  be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also
  ought to love one another.

Jesus Himself is the bread of God - Jesus Himself is the source of life:

  John 6:33 - For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives
  life to the world.

We should labor for the food that endures to eternal life:

  John 6:27 - Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that
  endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him
  God the Father has set his seal. (ESV)

  John 4:34 - Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent
  me and to accomplish his work. (ESV)

We have to put sin away after we come to believe in Him:

  Colossians 3:5-10 - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. In these you too
  once walked, when you were living in them. But now you must put them all
  away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do
  not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its
  practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge
  after the image of its creator.

A new creation lives for Christ:

  II Corinthians 5:14-17 - For the love of Christ controls us, because we
  have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died;
  and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for
  themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised. From now on,
  therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once
  regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer.
  Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed
  away; behold, the new has come.

Being born-again, my old man died and now my life is hidden with Christ in
God, and I'm seated with Him in the heavenly places in Christ living to serve
Jesus:

  Colossians 3:3 - For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in
  God. (ESV)

  Ephesians 1:3 - Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who
  has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly
  places, (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:6 - and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the
  heavenly places in Christ Jesus, (ESV)

We have authority in God:

  Matthew 28:18-20 - And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven
  and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all
  nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the
  Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And
  behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age. (ESV)

  Matthew 20:27-28 - and whoever would be first among you must be your slave,
  even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his
  life as a ransom for many. (ESV)

We must be in Christ Jesus. Those who have been born-again have become
obedient to Jesus Christ. Having been born-again, we walk by faith, not
sight:

  Romans 8:23-25 - And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the
  firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption
  as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now
  hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we
  hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:6-7 - So we are always of good courage. We know that while
  we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord, for we walk by faith,
  not by sight. (ESV)

We don't transition away from being servants of Jesus when we become friends
of Jesus - we still serve and obey Him. Jesus started calling His servants
His friends because Jesus had explained to them all He heard from Father God.
Jesus' friends still serve Jesus, and they obey Jesus but they also know what
Jesus is doing.

  John 15:14-15 - You are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer
  do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is
  doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my
  Father I have made known to you.

We must be born-again:

  Quote of John Piper
  Your life becomes a foretaste for others of your cherished future. But if
  your future that you cherish is grace coming to you at the revelation of
  Jesus Christ and that is your treasure, and that is your hope and that is
  your faith and that is your vision and what you hold onto and embrace, you
  cannot return evil for evil. You know why you cannot return evil for evil?
  (If that's where your heart is.) Because the cherished grace that's coming
  is that He's not going to return evil for evil to you. Then we cannot turn
  around and have a lifestyle of returning evil for evil or insulting for
  insulting, and therefore the point of saying it's a condition for that is
  simply this, "You must be born again." Therefore, it's a condition, not in
  the sense of earning anything but in the sense of bearing witness that
  you've fallen in love and live out of that confidence.

Amen. I want to say though that I obey Jesus when I'm feeling depressed and
having a bad day myself, it most certainly still counts as love to Jesus. If
I'm suffering for exercising obedient faith in Jesus, that obedience is still
loving Jesus. In fact, it's more blessed to give than to receive. The
obedience is still done out of love for Jesus and out of faith in Jesus. I
believe that obedience to Jesus is an expression of faith in Jesus, and an
expression of love for Jesus, and hope in Jesus. I've invested my life in
Jesus, and happy about it because I believe and hope in Jesus.

To love your neighbour as yourself means forgiving them too, and remember
that Jesus forgave us. It also means to not take vengeance (Christ's law
includes not rendering evil for evil):

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

OK, so to be obedient while enduring suffering, which God has allowed is love
which is greater than faith and hope which both abide; It's more blessed to
give than to receive. I would argue though that to maintain an affectionate
love for God while enduring suffering which God has allowed to happen is even
more difficult and more blessed than to maintain good works while suffering.
Love gives - love obeys Jesus' teaching. Love forgives and gives while being
stolen from and abused - love obeys. Love praises God and affectionately
loves God despite experiencing being thrown into darkness and God allowing
them to be tormented by the enemy..

Faithfulness to Jesus, though, is a baseline requirement:

  Matthew 24:12-13 - And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of
  many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
  (ESV)

See how faithfulness is related to faith - faith is faithful to God. Having
faith in God is keeping accountability with God with regard to His commands
and promises and maintaining faithfulness with God who sees in secret:

  II Timothy 2:13 - if we are faithless, he remains faithful— for he cannot
  deny himself. (ESV)

I have a strong desire to do what God wants me to do as I feel comfortable
that God is on my side and will not put me to shame for my shortcomings
because I am trusting Him. If the devil tries to damage me to make me sin and
I sin I know I have confidence that God is still taking care of me and knows
everything. Now I know I want to love other people because I have joy in
knowing God. But on a bad day, especially during this intense trial that I
face, I have confidence that even though I may have a Job 23:1-17 day, I will
still I will still keep my heart of obedience to God, especially the call to
love others because I do not want to misrepresent God or shame God in public
which would be akin to taking His name in vain.

  Job 23:1-17 - Then Job answered and said: Today also my complaint is
  bitter; my hand is heavy on account of my groaning. Oh, that I knew where I
  might find him, that I might come even to his seat! I would lay my case
  before him and fill my mouth with arguments. I would know what he would
  answer me and understand what he would say to me. Would he contend with me
  in the greatness of his power? No; he would pay attention to me. There an
  upright man could argue with him, and I would be acquitted forever by my
  judge. Behold, I go forward, but he is not there, and backward, but I do
  not perceive him; on the left hand when he is working, I do not behold him;
  he turns to the right hand, but I do not see him. But he knows the way that
  I take; when he has tried me, I shall come out as gold. My foot has held
  fast to his steps; I have kept his way and have not turned aside. I have
  not departed from the commandment of his lips; I have treasured the words
  of his mouth more than my portion of food. But he is unchangeable, and who
  can turn him back? What he desires, that he does. For he will complete what
  he appoints for me, and many such things are in his mind. Therefore I am
  terrified at his presence; when I consider, I am in dread of him. God has
  made my heart faint; the Almighty has terrified me; yet I am not silenced
  because of the darkness, nor because thick darkness covers my face. (ESV)

So I have a joy that's in God, yes, but it does not mean that on a bad day
(when I complain to God and feel as though I have no joy) that I have no love
for God. I'm fully convinced that Job still loved God, and the "joy" of God
was most likely still deep in Job's heart even though he felt bitter. That's
how I feel sometimes. I love Jesus but I tell him I'm angry at him. Perhaps a
bit like Martin Luther's psychosis:

youtube.com: The Insanity of Luther: The Holiness of God with R.C. Sproul
He had such a fear of the wrath of God that early on in his ministry somebody
put this question to him: "Brother Martin, do you love God?" You know what he
said? He said, "Love God? You ask me if I love God? Love God? Sometimes I
hate God. I see Christ as a consuming judge who is simply looking at me to
evaluate me and to visit affliction upon me.

And I am convinced that God still loves Job even when he had a bad complaint
and he felt bitterness. And I'm convinced that Martin Luther also loved God
and God loved Martin Luther.

Jesus says that the one who loves Him is the one who keeps His commandments.
Amen.

I love it when I have the II Corinthians 8:2 joy which spills over into
following Jesus' commandments - it makes it much easier!

We should be serving in gladness and joy because we have perspective - we
have God, and we should have joy in serving God and being used by God:

youtube.com: Overcoming Spiritual Dryness @time: 9 min 7 sec

The fight for joy is not a fight to be comfortable or have security or be
prosperous or any other of the American 'ideals' that are advertised to us
every day. It is a fight to join Jesus on the Calvary road. The fight to be
happy is a fight to join Jesus on the Calvary road.

It's not a praise God anyhow road. It's a road of suffering, it's a road of
tears, it's a road of empathy with all the dying people that you're aware of,
or who's marriages are in trouble or who's kids are on drugs. It's the people
you know that are broken in your vicinity and your joy is going to become a
high pressure zone that begins to make wind when it bumps up against
low-pressure zones of need and that wind is called love. Because your joy is
moving out and spilling over - "I have so much in Jesus, I know I have a lot
of stuff but oh I'm brimming with what really counts in life and I'm going to
use my stuff and my time and my energy to make your day for Jesus. I want to
serve you for Jesus."

Joy in God spilling over into serving God is where we want to be:

  II Corinthians 8:2 - for in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of
  joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on
  their part. (ESV)

This is the road we should be on:

  Hebrews 12:2 - looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith,
  who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the
  shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. (ESV)

• youtube.com: Overcoming Spiritual Dryness

It's good to have God. Having God is truly having everything we need:

  II Corinthians 6:10 - as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet
  making many rich; as having nothing, yet possessing everything. (ESV)

We're actually commanded to delight ourselves in God, and it's for our own
good. It's the correct way to think:

  Psalms 37:4 - Delight yourself in the LORD, and he will give you the
  desires of your heart. (ESV)

  Philippians 4:4 - Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, Rejoice.
  (ESV)

Cesare Borgia (Atheist)
While I lived, I provided for everything but death. Now I must die and I'm
unprepared to die.

Sir Thomas Scott
a privy councillor of James V. of Scotland, was a noted persecutor of the
reformers. Being taken suddenly ill, and finding himself dying, he cried out
to the Roman priests who sought to comfort him, "Begone, you and your
trumpery; until this moment I believed that there was neither a God nor a
hell. Now I know and I feel that there are both, and I am doomed to perdition
by the just judgment of the Almighty."

If you're keeping Jesus' words, and valuing them and seeking to live by them
then you'll be loved by Jehovah God, Abba Father God for loving Jesus:

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

The following is Scripture and trumps my own thoughts. I affirm these verses
wholeheartedly:

  II Corinthians 5:17 - Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new
  creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.

A new creation has faith working through love and keeps Jesus Christ's
commandments:

  Galatians 6:15 - For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. (ESV)

We both love/obey (25. agapaó) Jesus and believe/trust (4100. pisteuó) in Him
and receive the outcome of our faith, the salvation of our souls:

  I Peter 1:8-9 - Though you have not seen him, you love (25. agapaó) him.
  Though you do not now see him, you believe (4100. pisteuó) in him and
  rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the
  outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. (ESV)

And our trusting love is not merely obedient by affectionate:

  John 16:27 - for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved
  (5368. phileó) me and have believed (4100. pisteuó) that I came from God.
  (ESV)

|  Cognate: 25 agapáō – properly, to prefer, to love; for the believer, preferring to "live through Christ" (1 Jn 4:9,10), i.e. embracing God's will (choosing His choices) and obeying them through His power. 25 (agapáō) preeminently refers to what God prefers as He "is love" (1 Jn 4:8,16). See 26 (agapē).
| 
|  With the believer, 25 /agapáō ("to love") means actively doing what the Lord prefers, with Him (by His power and direction). True 25 /agapáō ("loving") is always defined by God – a "discriminating affection which involves choice and selection" (WS, 477). 1 Jn 4:8,16,17 for example convey how loving ("preferring," 25 /agapáō) is Christ living His life through the believer.

|  5368 philéō (from 5384 /phílos, "affectionate friendship") – properly, to show warm affection in intimate friendship, characterized by tender, heartfelt consideration and kinship.

Song
Steve Apirana - Born Again - YouTube

Out with the old selfish self and in with the new selflessly loving self:

  Galatians 5:6 - For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision
  counts for anything, but only faith working through love. (ESV)

Baptism should result in faith working through/by love; maintaining faith in
Jesus, and passing-forward love. This is really what it means to have put on
Christ - to have received forgiveness and love from God through faith and
then to forgive and love others:

  Galatians 3:25-27 - But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a
  guardian, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. For
  as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. (ESV)

Out with the old selfish self and in with the new selflessly loving, and
obedient to God self:

  I Corinthians 7:19 - For neither circumcision counts for anything nor
  uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. (ESV)

There is a change in our lives:

  Ephesians 2:3-7 - among whom we all once lived in the passions of our
  flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by
  nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in
  mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were
  dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ by grace you
  have been saved and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the
  heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show
  the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.
  (ESV)

And eventually His commandments become unburdensome, and we're keeping them,
and we have confidence we have come to know Him:

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

We must live in the spirit the way God does, not for human passions, but for
the will of God:

  I Peter 4:1-6 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the
  flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the
  flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. The time that
  is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in
  sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless
  idolatry. With respect to this they are surprised when you do not join them
  in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you; but they will give
  account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is
  why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged
  in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God
  does. (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

My thoughts

If someone was living in Egypt and was given daily food on the basis that
they would bow to an idol once every day, and then by faith they heeded God's
call to leave Egypt and go to a promised land of abundance without idolatry,
and then in the wilderness they began getting very hungry and it looked like
they might run out of food and die in the desert, but by faith they believed
that God would supply their needs instead of pining over an idolatrous way of
life, then God or someone God had sent (maybe a "good samaritan" bedouin for
example) brought them some food and they ate the food then the initial
leaving of Egypt or the receiving of the food itself could both be described
as that initial step of faith, or having arrived at salvation but the
"putting hand to the plough and not looking back" and the actual consumption
of the food could be described as the "working out of that salvation". And
the 'process' of being saved is the salvation.

So if someone says that when they first believed in their heart the gospel
they were saved, based entirely on Jesus' finished works, this is correct in
a way, but Jesus has purchased the salvation which is a process to be worked
out, and I just think the fullness of hte gospel has a lot more to it.

When we believe God's word given through Jesus, we have passed from death to
life. We should definitely then listen to Jesus to see what He has actually
spoken.

I think John 5:24 reads that the one who is trusting the words spoken through
Jesus, trusting God, trusting Jesus is holds/posesses eternal life and has
passed from death into life.

2064. erchomai
to come, go

3327. metabain
to pass over, withdraw, depart

In trusting Jesus' words - or even His name (onoma) and He is the judge - we
do not come into judgement, but change direction, and instead our destiny is
life eternal. Jesus is the judge of that. We do not come into judgement:

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears (191. akouó) my
  word (3056. logos) and believes (4100. pisteuó) him who sent me has eternal
  life. He does not come (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed
  (3327. metabain) from death to life. (ESV)

  John 3:18 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn) in him is not condemned, but
  whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed
  in the name (onoma) of the only Son of God. (ESV)

An indication that we have passed from death to life is that we agapé /
treasure our family in Christ:

  I John 3:14-20 - We know that we have passed out of death into life,
  because we love (agapōmen) the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in
  death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no
  murderer has eternal life abiding in him. By this we know love, that he
  laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the
  brothers. But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need,
  yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? Little
  children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth. By this
  we shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our heart before him;
  for whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and he
  knows everything. (ESV)

Belief (in the heart) that Jesus is the Son of God leads to:

• experiencing the love of God, and
• overcoming the world, which feels like:
• God's commandments are not burdensome
• Having agape for God and family in Christ and even for other
people, and
• not having agape for the world or worldly things

  I John 5:3-5 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has been born of
  God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the
  world—our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who
  believes that Jesus is the Son of God? (ESV)

  Acts 28:27 - For the heart of this people has become dull, And with their
  ears they scarcely hear, And they have closed their eyes; Otherwise they
  might see with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with
  their heart and return, And I would heal them.”’

Song
youtube.com: Pat Barrett - Build My Life {feat. Chris Tomlin} {Live}

New creation love:

Quote from John Piper
Love is the overflow of joy that meets the needs of others.

  II Corinthians 8:1-2 - We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of
  God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia, for in a severe
  test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have
  overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. (ESV)

Quote from John Piper
Christ-exalting love for people is the overflow of joy in God or it's not
love in a Biblical sense.

New creation love is emulating Christ's love towards others from a position
of a good conscience with God having been obedient to the gospel or it's not
love in a Biblical sense.

Feel free to quote me on that. It's continued obedience to God that proceeds
from a good conscience with God.

Quote by Mari Mari Emmanuel
Until I had a true encounter with Christ, the love of my life, there was
never joy within, never joy. When my sins are forgiven, when that beautiful
voice, that loving tender kind voice says to me, "I forgive you," then I
rejoice. That's why joy is to do with salvation.

Fear of God is not only about having the heart to repent from sin and "beat
hand on chest and ask God for mercy", but it is also having a changed heart,
endeavoring to please Christ with our actions:

  II Corinthians 5:6-11 - So we are always of good courage. We know that
  while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord, for we walk by
  faith, not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be
  away from the body and at home with the Lord. So whether we are at home or
  away, we make it our aim to please him. For we must all appear before the
  judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what
  he has done in the body, whether good or evil. Therefore, knowing the fear
  of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I
  hope it is known also to your conscience. (ESV)

  Isaiah 66:2 - All these things my hand has made, and so all these things
  came to be, declares the LORD. But this is the one to whom I will look: he
  who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. (ESV)

The repentant sinner next to Jesus on the cross knew he deserved his
punishment, and he even demonstrated that he had a heart that obeys the
gospel (whereas the other person appears to have been disobedient to the
gospel to death):

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority.

The unrepentant sinner wanted Jesus to save his present life:

  Luke 23:39 - One of the criminals who were hanged there was hurling abuse
  at Him, saying, “Are You not the Christ? Save Yourself and us!”

The repentant sinner feared God and put his hope on Jesus Christ, not to save
him from the cross, but to save his soul:

  Luke 23:40-43 - But the other answered, and rebuking him said, “Do you not
  even fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And
  we indeed are suffering justly, for we are receiving what we deserve for
  our deeds; but this man has done nothing wrong.” And he was saying, “Jesus,
  remember me when You come in Your kingdom!” And He said to him, “Truly I
  say to you, today you shall be with Me in Paradise.”

|  Our Father in Heaven,
| 
|  thank You, God, for loving us first by paying
|  the price for our sin with Jesus' blood.
| 
|  Thank You God that we can now love You and our
|  neighbour from a good conscience with You,
|  showing others forgiveness and love as we have
|  received forgiveness and love.
|  
|   Please God, help us to trust and obey You
|   through trusting and obey Jesus Christ our
|   Lord.
|  
|   Please God never let us fall away but sanctify
|   us through Your Spirit.
|  
|   In Jesus Christ's name I ask.
|  
|   AMEN!!

3.1. Being born-again of the Spirit

People were being born according to the Spirit for quite some time before
Jesus was born of the virgin Mary but it has been restricted to the children
of promise i.e. Abraham's descendants through Isaac:

  Galatians 4:28-31 - Now you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
  But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted
  him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. But what does
  the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the
  slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers,
  we are not children of the slave but of the free woman. (ESV)

Rather than being born according to the flesh, to be born according to the
Spirit happens being born through promise:

  Galatians 4:23 - But the son of the slave was born according to the flesh,
  while the son of the free woman was born through promise. (ESV)

OK, so the Spirit is received through faith (faith like Abraham's) in Jesus
Christ to all who believe. The promise was made to Christ. Now we must be
found in Christ. Amen:

  Galatians 3:13-16 - Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by
  becoming a curse for us—for it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged
  on a tree— so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to
  the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.
  To give a human example, brothers: even with a man-made covenant, no one
  annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. Now the promises were
  made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say, And to offsprings,
  referring to many, but referring to one, And to your offspring, who is
  Christ. (ESV)

It's a very big mystery to me that I was born-again of the Spirit on the
first day of Nisan, and had a meeting with the Holy Spirit (apparently) at
the tail end of Nisan. Well, whatever it was that happened to me happened.

Interestingly, the dates also line up very closely with Ramadan, but it was
actually Nisan, which was a Saturday (Shabbat) that I was born-again:

lmc.edu a-coincidence-that-happens-only-about-every-33-years.htm: In 2022
Passover, Ramadan, and Easter all fall in April, a coincidence that happens
only about every 33 years

|  In 2022 Passover, Ramadan, and Easter all fall
|  in April, a coincidence that happens only
|  about every 33 years.

vercalendario.info compare-5782.html: Jewish Calendar 5782

──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Event                                Dates
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Ramadan                   Evening of Fri, 1 Apr 2022 – Sun, 1 May 2022
Nisan                     2 April 2022 (Saturday) - May 1 2022
Passover                  Evening of Fri, 15 Apr 2022 – Sat, 23 Apr 2022
Lent                      Wed, 2 Mar 2022 – Thu, 14 Apr 2022
Born-again of the Spirit  2 April 2022
Meeting with Holy Spirit  3 May 2022
Marriage proposal         10 Aug 2022
Pleaded guilty in court   3 May 2023
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

|  1 Nisan Lunar new year, marking the month of
|  Aviv meaning spring, as the first month of the
|  year, which month was later called Nisan.
| 
|  The first national mitzvah that was given to
|  the Jewish people to fix the calendar to the
|  new moon of Aviv, according to the Book of
|  Exodus 12:1-2, 12:18. (c. 1456 BCE)

So I was born-again of the Spirit on 1 Nisan, which commemorates the death of
Abraham and the day the floodwaters receded from the earth:

|  1 Nisan The day the floodwaters receded from the earth, after the dove was sent out by Noah and returned with an olive branch, according to Genesis 8:10-13
|  1 Nisan (c. 1638 BCE) – Death of Abraham according to the Talmud[2]
|  1 Nisan (c. 1533 BCE) – Death of Isaac according to the Talmud[2]
|  1 Nisan (c. 1506 BCE) – Death of Jacob according to the Talmud[2]
|  1 Nisan (c. 1455 BCE) – Tabernacle (Mishkan) inaugurated on the second year "Exodus 40".
|  1 Nisan (c. 1455 BCE) death of Nadab and Abihu[3]
|  1 Nisan (c. 3761 BCE) – Creation of the Universe according to Joshua ben Hananiah's opinion in the Talmud, tractate Rosh Hashanah 10b–11a).
|  1 Nisan (1772) – Birth of Rabbi Nachman of Breslov[citation needed]
|  1 Nisan (1892) – Death of Rabbi Elimelech Szapira of Grodzhisk

lifecenter.ca the-hebrew-month-of-nissan-2022.html: THE HEBREW MONTH OF
NISSAN {2022} - Ahava Life Centre

  Exodus 12:1-2 - The LORD said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, This
  month shall be for you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month
  of the year for you. (ESV)

  I Peter 3:21 - Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a
  removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good
  conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, (ESV)

I just want to say that I don't observe any of these seasons, but it still
happened that way. I guess God has liberated me from observing them, among
others things, if that makes sense:

  Galatians 4:6-11 - And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his
  Son into our hearts, crying, Abba! Father! So you are no longer a slave,
  but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. Formerly, when you did
  not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are not gods. But
  now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, how can
  you turn back again to the weak and worthless elementary principles of the
  world, whose slaves you want to be once more? You observe days and months
  and seasons and years! I am afraid I may have labored over you in vain.
  (ESV)

3.1.1. New creation (kainē ktisis) - All things new

By a sovereign act of God we are born-again of the Spirit. For me, from my
perspective, it felt as though all my relationships were reset after 2 April
2022. As we are reconciled to God, all things become new.

II Corinthians 5:17 (Interlinear)

|  5620      1487 5100     1722    5547      2537          2937 [e]  3588
|  hōste     ei   tis      en      Christō   kainē         ktisis    ta
|  ὥστε      εἴ   τις      ἐν      Χριστῷ  , καινὴ         κτίσις  . τὰ
|  Therefore if   anyone   [is] in Christ    [he is] a new creation  The
|  Conj      Conj IPro-NMS Prep    N-DMS     Adj-NFS       N-NFS     Art-NNP
| 
|  744        3928             2400     1096 [e]            2537
|  archaia    parēlthen        idou     gegonen             kaina
|  ἀρχαῖα     παρῆλθεν  ;      ἰδοὺ  ,  γέγονεν             καινά  .
|   old things have passed away behold   has come into being [the] new
|   Adj-NNP    V-AIA-3S         V-AMA-2S V-RIA-3S            Adj-NNP

  Galatians 6:15 - For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. (ESV)

|  3777    1063 4061         5100     1510     3777 203
|  oute    gar  peritomē     ti       estin    oute akrobystia
|  οὔτε    γὰρ  περιτομή     τί       ἐστιν  , οὔτε ἀκροβυστία  ;
|  Neither for  circumcision anything is       nor  uncircumcision
|  Conj    Conj N-NFS        IPro-NNS V-PIA-3S Conj N-NFS
| 
|  235     2537    2937
|  alla    kainē   ktisis
|  ἀλλὰ    καινὴ   κτίσις  .
|   instead a new   creation
|   Conj    Adj-NFS N-NFS

  II Corinthians 5:16-21 - From now on, therefore, we regard no one according
  to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh,
  we regard him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a
  new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come. All this
  is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the
  ministry of reconciliation; that is, in Christ God was reconciling the
  world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and
  entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Therefore, we are
  ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on
  behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. For our sake he made him to be sin
  who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.
  (ESV)

3.1.2. Repentance after being born of the Spirit

As I have repented to be corrected by the Word of God, agreeing with it and
endeavoring to obey the Gospel of Jesus Christ, it feels as though I have
been rejecting lots and lots of heresies, and rejecting lots and lots of
false religion, and I hope that this helps others also to be corrected. I
have been trying to be corrected by obedience to the Gospel of Jesus a lot
since recording this 'dream' / conversation in my sleep. After actively
trying to be obedient to the Truth (obedient to Jesus), corrected and
believing the Truth (Jesus and His words, Scripture), I have come to distrust
odd spirits which speak to me in my sleep.

I believe that among other things I have had to fight against, reject or
repent from:

• a spirit of Mormomism
• youtube.com: Mormon Religion in a nutshell - John MacArthur
{@apologetics-jude1383}
• Thanks, John MacArthur. Yeah, I do not affirm Mormonism at all.
• youtube.com: Mormon Jesus vs Bible Jesus - Jeff Durbin
{@apologetics-jude1383}
• youtube.com: Dr. John MacArthur on Mormonism {@JmPizzle1}
• According to Mormon theology, the Mormon couples that have been
baptized in the temple in Salt Lake and have been faithful
Mormons and done what you're supposed to do they get their own
planet and they just make Gods with some kind of strange
celestial sex forever and ever and ever - that part of it folks
is very much like the 70 virgins that the jihadist terrorists
think they're going to meet when they blow themselves up along
with the infidels. This is a very, very pagan religious system.
• different God, a different Christ a different gospel different
Source material and you got a false religion.
• Joseph Smith is a false prophet.
• a spirit of Islam
• youtube.com: How Thomas Aquinas refuted Muhammad and Islam
{@SanctusApologetics}
• Summa Contra Gentiles of St. Thomas Aquinas
• youtube.com: The Heresy of Islam | St. John of Damascus
{@SanctusApologetics}
• a spirit of LGBT
• a spirit of Hinduism
• a spirit of Gnosticism
• a spirit of New Age
• youtube.com: Demonically Oppressed to Divinely Saved, New Age to
Jesus Testimony {@samkalawart}

I have also had to:

• be sanctified through obedience to the Truth, faith and the Spirit
• John 17:19 - And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also
may be sanctified in truth. (ESV)
• Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness
to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive
forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by
faith in me. (ESV)
• I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the
truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from
a pure heart, (ESV)
• get to know Jesus better through following His commandments
• I John 2:4 - Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)
• allow the LORD to build my house
• Psalms 127:1 - Unless the LORD (3068. Yhvh - Phonetic Spelling:
(yeh-ho-vaw'), Meaning: Jehovah) builds the house, those who build
it labor in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the
watchman stays awake in vain. (ESV)

I appreciated Bryce's testimony here as he also had to turn away from false
religion to follow Jesus:

youtube.com: Bryce Crawford's testimony: Sharing Jesus With An Atheist!
{@thebrycecrawford}

So there was a night I was going to take my life - it was on Christmas of
2020 - and I went to go have my last meal and I had a supernatural encounter
with Jesus - not religion - Jesus Christ I had a supernatural encounter with.
Right before, a few months before, I had actually looked into all these other
religions cuz like you said, you were like, "Oh, any sort of faith provides
good structure and that's what I had heard all my life. So I was like, "Man,
if I just believe in something, maybe it will get me out of this depression
pit." So I was looking at Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism, New Age, like everything
on the planet. And when I was looking at these things, like in Islam, for
example, you have like the five pillars of Islam, basically. You got to pray
five times a day, give alms to the poor, and the goal is to be a good person.
When you die, Allah is going to weigh your good and your bad, and if you did
more good than bad you're good but if you did more bad than good, not good.

And then I was like, "Well, it doesn't say how much is enough, so how do I
know if by the time I'm dead if I did enough? And then, you know, Buddhism
and Hinduism, they've got thousands of gods and you're trying to get
enlightened and not get bad karma cuz then you might get reincarnated into
something bad. And so I was like looking at all these religions and I felt
hopeless because I thought, "I have a hole in my heart. And if I'm a broken
human being - you know how wicked this world is - and [with] a broken heart -
I couldn't even heal the broken heart with the broken world." So I was like,
"If I live in a broken world with a broken heart how could I ever work to
perfection?"

It seemed impossible, and I knew I couldn't do it, so I was ready to take my
life that night in Waffle House and I had this Supernatural Encounter With
Jesus. I realized, man, I'm not following religion. I mean, yes, like
Christianity is like a labeled religion but I'm not following structured
religion, I'm following Jesus. I'm putting my faith and trust in him.

Quote from Mari Mari Emmanuel

Buddhist monks, you ask, why are you leaving the world and living in absolute
isolation? They'll tell you we are trying frantically to achieve what one
thing. To kill the human desire, because when we are able to kill the human
desire we are in control.

Why do you become enslaved to something? Because of your desire if you did
not desire this thing you wouldn't have been so weak when you e faced it.
True.

When you desire money money becomes your God you start worshiping money when
you desire fame fame becomes your God.

But they have failed to realize this truth: They can never kill desire. You
know why? Because the one who put desire in the human being is God and what
God gives no one can take away. God put desire in us so we can desire Him in
order to worship Him. Without desire, there is no worship.

  Now I had gone into court willingly after being born-again as I held my
  faith in Jesus and submitted to the authorities, but not perfect. After
  breaking bail to get baptised and bring everything into the light, obeying
  God and not man (See this video), the whole thing felt outside of my
  control (extremely graceless), and I was under clear impression especially
  later in 2022 that I was battling an antichrist spirit pressuring me into
  several things:

    • Justification by works after I had already received the Spirit earlier
      that year:
         • Galatians 3:3 - Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit,
           are you now being perfected by the flesh? (ESV)
    • Tempting me to out of faith with Jesus, by making me fearful of jail
         • Hebrews 12:16 - that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like
           Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal. (ESV)
         • I John 4:18 - There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out
           fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has
           not been perfected in love. (ESV)
    • Pressuring me to not pass forward the love of Christ
         • Matthew 6:14-15 - For if you forgive others their trespasses, your
           heavenly Father will also forgive you, but if you do not forgive
           others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your
           trespasses. (ESV)
         • Colossians 3:13 - bearing with one another and, if one has a
           complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has
           forgiven you, so you also must forgive. (ESV)
    • Pressuring me to affirm all my error instead of embracing
      sanctification:
         • I Peter 1:2 - according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in
           the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ
           and for sprinkling with his blood: May grace and peace be
           multiplied to you. (ESV)

  As interesting as the parallels or similarities are with my own testimony,
  I think this Mormon doctrine shows interesting parallels or similarities
  with my own testimony but I cannot affirm everything, nor their extra
  books, and I am not a Mormon :: thechurchnews.com: Isaac: Child of the
  promise and heir of the promises - Church News (Mormonism)

  I don't need to prove myself to men, as God sees the heart, but I have my
  relationship with God:

    • I Chronicles 29:17 - I know, my God, that you test the heart and have
      pleasure in uprightness. In the uprightness of my heart I have freely
      offered all these things, and now I have seen your people, who are
      present here, offering freely and joyously to you. (ESV)

  So through obedience to the gospel, I came into the light, I pleaded
  guilty, I made testimony of Jesus, etc. "whoever would save his life will
  lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it." This is
  Biblical gospel teaching, that through faith in Jesus we may be saved, and
  I disagree with the Mormans' interpretation.

    • John 3:21 - But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that
      it may be clearly seen that his deeds have been carried out in God.
      (ESV)
    • Matthew 16:25 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but
      whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. (ESV)

It's really interesting what has happened regarding my testimony of getting
born-again, my blog writings of 2022 and of course, court and how it relates
to Isaiah 1:12-17. I think the take-away from this is that we should cease to
do evil and learn to do good. It is odd that although I do not observe new
moons or religious 'feasts', whatever has happened has happened. I think
everyone involved should repent before God going forward:

  Isaiah 1:12-17 - When you come to appear before me, who has required of you
  this trampling of my courts? Bring no more vain offerings; incense is an
  abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath and the calling of convocations— I
  cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly. Your new moons and your
  appointed feasts my soul hates; they have become a burden to me; I am weary
  of bearing them. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from
  you; even though you make many prayers, I will not listen; your hands are
  full of blood. Wash yourselves; make yourselves clean; remove the evil of
  your deeds from before my eyes; cease to do evil, learn to do good; seek
  justice, correct oppression; bring justice to the fatherless, plead the
  widow's cause. (ESV)

I also do not affirm the LDS doctrine here:

• en.wikipedia.org: Melchizedek priesthood {Latter Day Saints} - Wikipedia

I see the LDS stuff here as heretical, and I do not consider their extra
books to be Scripture.

I've been attending Bible studies and allowing myself to be corrected and
renewed in mind by the Truth which is the Word of God:

  John 17:17 - Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth. (ESV)

And I think that the spirits which I attacked me tried to bundle in my desire
to marry the girl I had met with false religion.

I affirm that I wanted to marry her when I met her at the Baptist church long
before (if I recall the events precisely) I had even visited the Mormon
church, so I have a good conscience before God with regards to the marriage
proposal and that. Jehovah God as my witness, it was love that issued from a
pure heart and a good conscience and sincere faith and I believe the enemy
tried to sabotage me:

  I Timothy 1:3-5 - As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at
  Ephesus that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different
  doctrine, nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies, which
  promote speculations rather than the stewardship from God that is by faith.
  The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good
  conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

I cannot affirm spirits or dreams which do not confess Jesus. Neither can I
affirm as without error my own writings, especially those I have written as
I've been repenting from error:

• web.archive.org mullikine.github.io: Dream: King John the Baptist //
Bodacious Blog

  I John 4:1-3 - Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits
  to see whether they are from God, for many false prophets have gone out
  into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that
  confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, and every
  spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of
  the antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already.
  (ESV)

Now I endeavour to take every thought captive to Christ:

  II Corinthians 10:5-6 - We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised
  against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey
  Christ, being ready to punish every disobedience, when your obedience is
  complete. (ESV)

No, You Do Not Hold The Melchizedek Priesthood

So he is King of Peace and King of Righteousness, serving bread and wine,
praising God, a priest, and Abram tithes to him! However, I don’t believe he
is actually a preincarnate appearance of Christ—Hebrews 7:3 tells us that
Melchizedek resembled Jesus, not that he was Jesus.

And that is a key point: The text isn’t saying that Jesus is like
Melchizedek, but that Melchizedek is like Jesus—that Jesus is the true and
better Melchizedek, just as he is the true and better Temple, Lamb, Passover,
Moses, David, on forward. This is another case of typology, that this is
about that. God wrote the story of Melchizedek in living history, to later
teach us something of the Person and work of Jesus. So that is the origin of
this designation.

AMEN!!

For a long while now I have affirmed that Jesus is the only King, and my King
and in doing so I really mean to say that I am not a king, but would happily
let Jesus call me His brother and a royal priest in His kingdom:

Song
youtube.com: Only King Forever | Live | Elevation Worship

  Revelation of John 19:19 - And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth
  with their armies gathered to make war against him who was sitting on the
  horse and against his army. (ESV)

  Psalms 82:6-8 - I said, You are gods, sons of the Most High, all of you;
  nevertheless, like men you shall die, and fall like any prince. Arise, O
  God, judge the earth; for you shall inherit all the nations! (ESV)

Verses such as this demonstrate the holy justice of God. God nearly put Moses
to death:

  Exodus 4:24-26 - At a lodging place on the way the LORD met him and sought
  to put him to death. Then Zipporah took a flint and cut off her son's
  foreskin and touched Moses' feet with it and said, Surely you are a
  bridegroom of blood to me! So he let him alone. It was then that she said,
  A bridegroom of blood, because of the circumcision. (ESV)

Thus so (Houtōs) (in this way) did God love (25. agapaó - value,treasure) the
world, that He gave His Only-Begotten (G3439. monogenēs - unique,only
begotten) Son that (G2443 hina - in order that) everyone who is
trusting/believing in Him may not perish, but may have life everlasting:

biblehub.com 3-16.htm: John 3:16 Interlinear: for God did so love the world,
that His Son – the only begotten – He gave, that every one who is believing
in him may not perish, but may have life age-during.

  John 3:16-17 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God
  did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that
  the world might be saved through him. (ESV)

We are found in Christ by having faith in Christ and putting on Christ. This
was my behaviour during 2022 after being born-again. I was acting obediently
and in faith knowing I was born-again and saved already and had to pass on
love and forgiveness, and also repent from error - all of these:

  Galatians 3:22-29 - But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so
  that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who
  believe. Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law,
  imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then, the law was
  our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by
  faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian, for
  in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. For as many of you
  as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor
  Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female,
  for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ's, then you are
  Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise. (ESV)

Quote from John Piper
The most profound change in the universe is when a human being passes from
death to life - from spiritual deadness to spiritual aliveness and this text
is about how to help that change happen.

AMEN!

youtube.com: How to Seek the Holy Spirit @time: 48 min 13 sec
"If anyone keeps Jesus' word, holds fast, treasures it, in obedience, that
person will not be quenching the Spirit, that person will not be grieving the
Spirit, but will know the fullness and sweetness of fellowship with the
Father and the Son."

AMEN to that, John Piper.

  Ephesians 3:6 - This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members
  of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the
  gospel. (ESV)

We must be children of the promise:

  Romans 9:6-8 - But it is not as though the word of God has failed. For not
  all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel, and not all are
  children of Abraham because they are his offspring, but Through Isaac shall
  your offspring be named. This means that it is not the children of the
  flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are
  counted as offspring. (ESV)

  Romans 2:26-29 - So, if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of
  the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he
  who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have
  the written code and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew
  who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But
  a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the
  Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man but from God. (ESV)

The promise is to be an heir of the world:

  Romans 4:13 - For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be
  heir of the world did not come through the law but through the
  righteousness of faith. (ESV)

We trust/believe in the one true God who raised Jesus Christ our Lord from
the dead. We have peace with God through trusting faith:

  Romans 4:23-25,5:1-2 - But the words it was counted to him were not written
  for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe
  in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for
  our trespasses and raised for our justification. Therefore, since we have
  been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus
  Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace
  in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. (ESV)

We have faith in Almighty God who gives life to the dead and calls into
existence the things that do not exist. Our faith is modeled on Abraham's:

  Romans 4:16-17 - That is why it depends on faith, in order that the promise
  may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring—not only to the
  adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham,
  who is the father of us all, as it is written, I have made you the father
  of many nations—in the presence of the God in whom he believed, who gives
  life to the dead and calls into existence the things that do not exist.
  (ESV)

We need to call on God for help:

  Romans 10:8-13 - But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth
  and in your heart (that is, the word of faith that we proclaim); because,
  if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart
  that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart
  one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is
  saved. For the Scripture says, Everyone who believes in him will not be put
  to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; the same Lord
  is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone
  who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. (ESV)

OK, so the Spirit is received through faith (faith like Abraham's) in Jesus
Christ to all who believe. The promise was made to Abraham and to Christ. Now
we must be found in Christ. Amen:

  Galatians 3:13-16 - Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by
  becoming a curse for us—for it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged
  on a tree— so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to
  the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.
  To give a human example, brothers: even with a man-made covenant, no one
  annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. Now the promises were
  made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say, And to offsprings,
  referring to many, but referring to one, And to your offspring, who is
  Christ. (ESV)

3.1.3. Becoming born-again of the Spirit may be receiving the inheritance

Then there may be some nuance between receiving the Holy Spirit who is the
guarantee of our inheritance, and being born of the Spirit which may be [part
of] our inheritance.

  I Corinthians 15:50 - I tell you this, brothers: flesh and blood cannot
  inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the
  imperishable. (ESV)

In trusting in Jesus Christ, we may receive the Holy Spirit:

  John 7:37-39 - On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up
  and cried out, If anyone thirsts (G1372 dipsaó), let him come to me and
  drink (G4095 pinó). Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuó) in me, as the
  Scripture has said, Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now
  this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to
  receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not
  yet glorified. (ESV)

  Ephesians 1:13-14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

  John 3:5 - Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born
  of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

3.1.4. The living water, the Holy Spirit of promise is the seal of our
inheritance, and received through faith in Jesus

  John 4:10 - Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it is
  that is saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he
  would have given you living water. (ESV)

  John 4:14 - but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never
  be thirsty forever. The water that I will give him will become in him a
  spring of water welling up to eternal life. (ESV)

3.1.5. Jesus being glorified means we can receive the Holy Spirit through faith

  John 13:31-32 - Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son
  of man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God be glorified in him,
  God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall straightway glorify him.
  (KJV)

  John 20:22 - And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to
  them, Receive the Holy Spirit. (ESV)

  Acts 2:4 - And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak
  in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. (ESV)

3.1.6. When we are born of the Spirit, we receive a regenerated spirit-man.
This is part of the inheritance, I think

Being born of the Spirit / spiritually regenerated I think is a different
event to receiving the Holy Spirit which typically happens beforehand,
particularly for Gentile Christians when we give our heart to the Lord Jesus:

  Galatians 4:28-31 - Now you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
  But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted
  him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. But what does
  the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the
  slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers,
  we are not children of the slave but of the free woman. (ESV)

  Romans 4:13-18 - For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would
  be heir of the world did not come through the law but through the
  righteousness of faith. For if it is the adherents of the law who are to be
  the heirs, faith is null and the promise is void. For the law brings wrath,
  but where there is no law there is no transgression. That is why it depends
  on faith, in order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to
  all his offspring—not only to the adherent of the law but also to the one
  who shares the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all, as it is
  written, I have made you the father of many nations—in the presence of the
  God in whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls into
  existence the things that do not exist. In hope he believed against hope,
  that he should become the father of many nations, as he had been told, So
  shall your offspring be. (ESV)

  Ephesians 1:13-14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

3.1.7. Any spiritual experience should be in the character of the Holy Spirit

youtube.com: How to Preach with Supernatural Power @time: 8 min 16 sec
He does not mean that something spiritual is religious or mystical or
other-worldly. That's what most people think about spiritual… Well, no it's
not. Instead spiritual for Paul meant originating by the Holy Spirit and
having the quality of the Holy Spirit, formed by the character of the Holy
Spirit. It is supernatural, wrought, shaped by the Holy Spirit… The problem
with the 'mind of the flesh is not that it fails to be religious, or that it
fails to be mystical or that it fails to be other-worldly. In fact, the mind
of the flesh may be intensely religious. The mind of the flesh may be very
mystical, very other-worldly. The problem with the mind of the flesh is that
it's hardened againsnt the beauty of God, the worth of God, the authority of
God. It's hard against God. It's unable to welcome and love and delight in
and enjoy God.

AMEN John Piper. Thanks.

youtube.com: C. S. Lewis 2024 - Characteristics of the Holy Spirit's
personality

  Romans 8:6-9 - To set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind
  on the Spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is
  hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law; indeed, it cannot.
  Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the
  flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone
  who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. (ESV)

3.1.8. My testimony of being born-again of the Spirit

Being born of the Spirit is something which is genuinely unpredictable but we
can sense its coming and going. It's not the same thing as getting someone to
pray a sinner's prayer, for example, otherwise Jesus would not have used this
analogy. We can sense it (hear it's sound, such as making testimony of being
born of the Spirit), but we don't know where it comes form or where it goes:

  John 3:3-8 - Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born again he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can
  a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's
  womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That
  which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit
  is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born again. The
  wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know
  where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of
  the Spirit. (ESV)

People were being born according to the Spirit for quite some time before
Jesus was born of the virgin Mary but it has been restricted to the children
of promise i.e. Abraham's descendants through Isaac:

  Galatians 4:28-31 - Now you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
  But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted
  him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. But what does
  the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the
  slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers,
  we are not children of the slave but of the free woman. (ESV)

I was born-again 'of the Spirit' on 2 April 2022 where I was given a new
body, or it was regenerated - a blue light-body.

  Galatians 6:14-17 - But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of
  our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I
  to the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. And as for all who walk by this rule,
  peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God. From now on let
  no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:5 - He who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who
  has given us the Spirit as a guarantee. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Be Who You Are: Living Out Identity in Christ, Part 1

We are saved to serve Christ:

  II Corinthians 5:15 - and he died for all, that those who live might no
  longer live for themselves but for him who for their sake died and was
  raised. (ESV)

We are meant to serve God. We are saved from not serving God, that we serve
God through serving Christ:

  Luke 4:4-8 - And Jesus answered him, It is written, Man shall not live by
  bread alone. And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of
  the world in a moment of time, and said to him, To you I will give all this
  authority and their glory, for it has been delivered to me, and I give it
  to whom I will. If you, then, will worship me, it will all be yours. And
  Jesus answered him, It is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and
  him only shall you serve. (ESV)

We are saved to work for Christ for the sake of Christ and the ministry of
reconciling other sinners to God through Christ:

  II Corinthians 5:18 - All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled
  us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; (ESV)

The Apostles were working with Christ. I believe the Apostles also here are
exhorting believers to work with Christ to receive the grace of God:

  II Corinthians 5:21-6:1 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no
  sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Working
  together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God
  in vain. (ESV)

  James 2:22 - You see that faith (G4102 pistis) was working with (4903.
  sunergeó) his works (G2041 ergon), and as a result of the works (G2041
  ergon), faith (G4102 pistis) was perfected (G5048 teleioo);

4903. sunergeó
Definition: to work together. Usage: I cooperate with, work together.

  II Corinthians 7:15 - And his affection for you is even greater, as he
  remembers the obedience of you all, how you received him with fear and
  trembling. (ESV)

God put our sin on Jesus:

youtube.com: John MacArthur | The Gospel in 1 Minute | #paulwasher
#voddiebaucham #billygraham #johnmacarthur

The Bible, II Corinthians 5:21 - He made Him who knew no sin sin for us that
we might be made the righteousness of God in Him. Let me unpack those 15
Greek words. He, God, made Jesus sin. What do you mean He made Jesus sin?
Only in one sense he treated him as if he had committed every sin ever
committed by every person who would ever believe, though in fact he committed
none of them. Hanging on the cross, He was Holy, harmless, undefiled. Hanging
on the cross, He was a spotless Lamb. He was never for a split second a
sinner. He is Holy God on the cross. But God is treating him - I'll put it
more practically - as if he lived my life.

God punished Jesus for my sin, turns right around and treats me as if I lived
His life.

That's the great doctrine of substitution and on that Doctrine turned the
whole Reformation of the church - that is the heart of the gospel. And what
you get is complete forgiveness covered by the righteousness of Jesus Christ.
When He (God) looks at the cross he sees you. When He looks at you he sees
Christ.

Being born-again of the spirit was a total gift received through faith in
Jesus, none of my own merit at all - simple very imperfect repentance from
sin and faith in God exercising faithfulness:

  I don't really know what this is. It was something like a singularity event
  and my perception of the world is now spiritual. Most of my life I have not
  been a very faithful Christian. I was a 'nominal' Christian but I didn't
  really have a lot of faith or knowledge of God. I had not been seeking out
  Jesus. For the 2 years leading up to 2 April 2022, I can tell now in
  retrospect that God was working in my life, and I had begun seeking Jesus,
  and trying out repentance, and eventually arrived at the point where I was
  crying to God for help. So when was I born-again? Was it when I first
  believed as a child, or when I was baptised as a teenager? Not in the same
  way I was born-again on 2 April 2022. On 2 April 2022 I was truly
  born-again of the Spirit, and my best explanation as to what had changed
  was that I had begun to authentically seek God and to be obedient to Jesus,
  accountable to God who sees in secret, and not to man, and that activated a
  real prayer life, and actively believing God exists and sees, and I had
  asked God to give me His Holy Spirit. Even though I could not yet hear His
  voice, I was praying and seeking and beginning to repent. On the 2 April
  2022 I was born-again the Spirit - I was spiritually regenerated - whatever
  it was that happened which I described. When that happened God had put the
  fear of Him in my heart so that I would not turn from Him, and it was
  receiving a new spiritual light-body like being birthed from a womb. When I
  first 'believed' the gospel, this had not happened yet, but I had the
  testimony I guess. This event, what I experienced on 2 April 2022 I
  consider to me being born of 'water and the Spirit'. But hearing and
  keeping the gospel of Jesus, and asking God to receive the Holy Spirit, or
  seeking God I guess they will have some events, probably different to my 2
  April 2022 event something similar happen then or in their future some
  time, I assume, or perhaps it is 'entering the Kingdom of God'. I don't
  know exactly how it works. I'm retroactively trying to figure things out by
  reading the Scriptures.

As I understand it, if someone is "born of God", they would love Jesus. If
someone loves with Christ's love then they are "born of God and know God" and
they would love Jesus if presented with Jesus. If someone is "born of the
Spirit" then they have been spiritually regenerated. Being born of the Spirit
is what I understand is to be "born-again of water and the Spirit".

Maybe these two things are at the same time if a person believes without
doubting.

A person may not yet have received the Holy Spirit at the time they believed.
I think it's certainly essential to have obedience to God in order to be born
of the Spirit, as far as I can tell.

When the following says "they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus",
I'm sure this is baptism in water. It's also apparent that a person may
receive the Holy Spirit at the time they believed, and the passage also seems
to suggest that believing alongside being baptized in water, the person is
expected to receive the Holy Spirit:

  Acts 19:1-6 - And it happened that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul
  passed through the inland country and came to Ephesus. There he found some
  disciples. And he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you
  believed? And they said, No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy
  Spirit. And he said, Into what then were you baptized? They said, Into
  John's baptism. And Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of
  repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after
  him, that is, Jesus. On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the
  Lord Jesus. And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came
  on them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying. (ESV)

Also, a person may not have been "Born of the Spirit" (whatever it was that
happened to me on 2 April 2022) when they intially believed. But rather, I
think they are "born of God", that is if they do in truth believe that Jesus
is the Christ:

  I John 5:1 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. (ESV)

I had begun to authentically seek God and to be obedient to Jesus,
accountable to God who sees in secret. Then I was born of the Spirit.

We must love Jesus by keeping His commandments:

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

A friend said this at church the very day after I was born again of the
Spirit, " Just because some messages may have been wrong, don't quench the
work of God's Spirit among you by banning all prophecies, but rather make
sure you test them. Hold onto what is good and dismiss those that are not
good (i.e. those that are evil). "

  I Thessalonians 5:20-21 - Do not despise prophecies, but test everything;
  hold fast what is good. (ESV)

I feel that way about my experience of being born-again of the Spirit and
then undergoing purification and ongoing repentance and correction.

Over the course of 2022, I was actually speaking a lot of prophecy. There was
a lot of truth in it, and a lot of error, but my defense is Jesus and I was
getting to know Jesus through being washed in the word, and in obedience to
Jesus' commandments, and being corrected by the word, but we don't want to
throw the baby out with the bathwater.

  Revelation of John 19:10 - Then I fell down at his feet to worship him, but
  he said to me, You must not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and
  your brothers who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Worship God. For the
  testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 1:4-5 - For we know, brothers loved by God, that he has
  chosen you, because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in
  power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. You know what kind
  of men we proved to be among you for your sake. (ESV)

  Romans 8:9 - You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in
  fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit
  of Christ does not belong to him. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 6:19 - Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the
  Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, (ESV)

As a result of being born of the Spirit and subsequent obedience to Jesus'
commandments has resulted in a huge amount of worldly resistance, and also
I've had to fight against a spirit of justification by law compliance, and
I've had to fight against a spirit which denies my sins were atoned for and
tries to get me to do good works for justification. I still do good works out
of obedience but I resist the spirit pressuring me to work for justification
(it is a very vindictive, Christ-denying spirit, and it is incredibly
persistent):

  Galatians 4:29 - But just as at that time he who was born according to the
  flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is
  now. (ESV)

3.2. Experiential heart belief through obedience

If you want to really get to know someone then you would learn to walk in
their footsteps. Belief must arrive in the heart, not merely the head.
There's a confession, an admittance, and a belief in the heart:

  Romans 10:9 - because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord
  and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be
  saved. (ESV)

We should definitely confess Jesus to others:

  Luke 12:8-9 - And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the
  Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God, but the one who
  denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. (ESV)

Faith presses on to walk the same way Jesus walked - even to spend the rest
of the time on earth obedient to Jesus to know Jesus and the power of His
resurrection, becoming like Him in His death (i.e. being faithful to God,
stopping sin, exercising righteousness, becoming a scapegoat, even to death
like the Apostles, sharing in His sufferings, living has He lived) and His
resurrection:

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

3.3. Repentance from sin may come before believing in Jesus

  Acts 19:4 - And Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of repentance,
  telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that
  is, Jesus. (ESV)

3.4. Born of God

I think being born of God might in some way mean being born of the will of
God:

  John 1:13 - who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of
  the will of man, but of God. (ESV)

  I John 5:1 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. (ESV)

I find both of these helpful:

• youtube.com: "Whosoever is Born of God Doth Not Commit Sin" 1 John 3
Explained {@OnoDiamante}
• youtube.com: Does the Bible Say True Christians Never Sin? {@desiringGod}

I think this verse could likely mean that the person who is born of God has
the power to not sin, as opposed to "never sins", but I'd have to research
that:

|  3956    3588    1080             1537 3588
|  Pas     ho      gegennēmenos     ek   tou
|  Πᾶς     ὁ       γεγεννημένος     ἐκ   τοῦ
|  Anyone   -      having been born of    -
|  Adj-NMS Art-NMS V-RPM/P-NMS      Prep Art-GMS
| 
|  2316    266       3756 4160      3754    4690
|  Theou   hamartian ou   poiei     hoti    sperma
|  Θεοῦ  , ἁμαρτίαν  οὐ   ποιεῖ  ,  ὅτι     σπέρμα
|   God     sin       not  practices because seed
|   N-GMS   N-AFS     Adv  V-PIA-3S  Conj    N-NNS
|  
|   846       1722 846       3306     2532 3756
|   autou     en   autō      menei    kai  ou
|   αὐτοῦ     ἐν   αὐτῷ      μένει  , καὶ  οὐ
|   of Him    in   him       abides   and  not
|   PPro-GM3S Prep PPro-DM3S V-PIA-3S Conj Adv
|  
|   1410       264                 3754
|   dynatai    hamartanein         hoti
|   δύναται    ἁμαρτάνειν  ,       ὅτι
|   he is able to continue sinning because
|   V-PIM/P-3S V-PNA               Conj
|  
|   1537 3588    2316  1080
|   ek   tou     Theou gegennētai
|   ἐκ   τοῦ     Θεοῦ  γεγέννηται  .
|   of   mfs -   God   he has been born
|   Prep Art-GMS N-GMS V-RIM/P-3S

One thing for sure, the person born of God is brought into doing the will of
God:

  I John 5:18 - We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not; but he
  that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him
  not. (KJV)

  I John 5:4 - For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And
  this is the victory that has overcome the world—our faith. (ESV)

Someone who has just been born of God is a newborn, an infant in Christ.

Keeping Father God's commandments, we love Father God and we love all those
who have been born of Him. We must love all those who believes that Jesus is
the Messiah because anyone who believes Jesus is the Messiah has been born of
God:

  I John 5:1 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. (ESV)

The one who believes Jesus is the Son of God is loved by the brethren, joins
the family and overcomes the world:

  I John 5:5 - Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes
  that Jesus is the Son of God? (ESV)

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

3.4.1. We put away the false gods, and only worship the One True God: Jehovah,
and Jesus Christ who He sent

Jehovah is God Almighty who was working through Jesus Christ who is the Son
of God who also is to be worshiped as Jehovah God, now reigning on the throne
of His Father:

  Exodus 6:3 - I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, as God
  Almighty, but by my name the LORD I did not make myself known to them.
  (ESV)

Exodus 6:3 (Interlinear)
and I appear unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, as God Almighty; as to
My name Jehovah, I have not been known to them;

Jesus reigns and inherits all things. Jesus is the radiance of the glory of
God:

  Hebrews 1:1-4 - Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our
  fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his
  Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created
  the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of
  his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After
  making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty
  on high, having become as much superior to angels as the name he has
  inherited is more excellent than theirs. (ESV)

Jesus is to be honoured just the Father is honoured:

  John 5:22-23 - The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the
  Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever
  does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. (ESV)

The Bible actually teaches that other so-called gods (all those Hindu gods,
for example) are not the One True God who created everything. I affirm
Christianity's perspective on this. According to Christianity, to serve them
is actually to live in some kind of delusion:

  I Corinthians 8:3-7 - But if anyone loves God, he is known by God.
  Therefore, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that an idol
  has no real existence, and that there is no God but one. For although there
  may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth—as indeed there are many gods
  and many lords— yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all
  things and for whom we exist, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are
  all things and through whom we exist. However, not all possess this
  knowledge. But some, through former association with idols, eat food as
  really offered to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled.
  (ESV)

It's true that there are such heavenly beings, but we're not supposed to
worship them:

  Psalms 82:6-8 - I said, You are gods, sons of the Most High, all of you;
  nevertheless, like men you shall die, and fall like any prince. Arise, O
  God, judge the earth; for you shall inherit all the nations! (ESV)

  Colossians 2:18 - Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and
  worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without
  reason by his sensuous mind, (ESV)

In times past, God overlooked the worship of false-gods:

  Joshua 24:15 - And if it is evil in your eyes to serve the LORD, choose
  this day whom you will serve, whether the gods your fathers served in the
  region beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you
  dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the LORD. (ESV)

  John 10:34-38 - Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your Law, I said,
  you are gods? If he called them gods to whom the word of God came—and
  Scripture cannot be broken— do you say of him whom the Father consecrated
  and sent into the world, You are blaspheming, because I said, I am the Son
  of God? If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me;
  but if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works,
  that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I am in the
  Father. (ESV)

But now God calls all people everywhere to repent. Christians must turn away
from worshiping false-gods, practicing witchcraft, etc.:

  Acts 17:29-32 - Being then God's offspring, we ought not to think that the
  divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art
  and imagination of man. The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he
  commands all people everywhere to repent, because he has fixed a day on
  which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has
  appointed; and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from
  the dead. Now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked.
  But others said, We will hear you again about this. (ESV)

Christians do not worship foreign gods:

  Joshua 24:23 - He said, Then put away the foreign gods that are among you,
  and incline your heart to the LORD, the God of Israel. (ESV)

  Genesis 35:2-3 - So Jacob said to his household and to all who were with
  him, Put away the foreign gods that are among you and purify yourselves and
  change your garments. Then let us arise and go up to Bethel, so that I may
  make there an altar to the God who answers me in the day of my distress and
  has been with me wherever I have gone. (ESV)

As a Christian, I want nothing to do with false-gods:

  Revelation of John 9:20-21 - The rest of mankind, who were not killed by
  these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands nor give up
  worshiping demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and
  wood, which cannot see or hear or walk, nor did they repent of their
  murders or their sorceries or their sexual immorality or their thefts.
  (ESV)

And as a prophetic person, I do not want to encourage anyone to worship
false-gods and so be labeled as a false-prophet:

  Revelation of John 16:13-15 - And I saw, coming out of the mouth of the
  dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false
  prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs. For they are demonic spirits,
  performing signs, who go abroad to the kings of the whole world, to
  assemble them for battle on the great day of God the Almighty. (Behold, I
  am coming like a thief! Blessed is the one who stays awake, keeping his
  garments on, that he may not go about naked and be seen exposed!) (ESV)

3.4.2. Peter initially protested, but then came to trust Jesus and have a
"share with Jesus"

  John 13:6-9 - He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my
  feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but
  afterward you will understand. Peter said to him, You shall never wash my
  feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me.
  Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only but also my hands and my
  head! (ESV)

3.4.3. Jesus created disciples of Himself

We must turn to obedience to Jesus and loving with Christ's love to come to
know Him. We ought to love as Christ loved us, as He is our Lord and Teacher,
but Jesus WASHED (past-tense) us and then we ought to love as He did and we
practice personal righteousness while having His imputed righteousness, as he
is our Master.

We are forgiven to do the will of God. We are saved to obey God better. God
puts us into Christ. We obey to wash others, and for ourselves to be
sanctified, like a branch becoming healthier in the tree:

  John 13:12-16 - When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments
  and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I have done
  to you? You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I
  then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash
  one another's feet. For I have given you an example, that you also should
  do just as I have done to you. Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not
  greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent
  him. (ESV)

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all
  people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

3.4.4. Everyone who is actively and actually believing that Jesus is the Christ
has been born of God

  I John 5:1 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. (ESV)

3.4.5. Whoever loves with Christ's love has been born of God and knows God

  I John 4:6-12 - We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever
  is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth
  and the spirit of error. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from
  God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does
  not love does not know God, because God is love. In this the love of God
  was made manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so
  that we might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God
  but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
  Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has
  ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is
  perfected in us. (ESV)

3.5. A person who is really believing in Jesus will do the works of Jesus -
they'll produce good works

This doesn't necessarily mean that obedience is nonexistent before good
works, as believing in Jesus is obedience, and repentance is obedience and
these things are not done in a heart of "working for justification". It is
obedient to end (turn away from) the bad works:

  John 14:12 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also
  do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I
  am going to the Father. (ESV)

We just turn away from doing satan's will and turn torwards doing God's will:

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness
  of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. (ESV)

But repentance and belief should result in good works (serving the living
God):

  Hebrews 9:14 - how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the
  eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our
  conscience from dead works to serve the living God. (ESV)

3.5.1. Receiving the inheritance naturally comes after hearing the word of
truth and believing in Jesus

The initial seal of the Holy Spirit comes with hearing the gospel and
believing in Jesus.

  Ephesians 1:13-14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

  Acts 20:32 - And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace,
  which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all
  those who are sanctified. (ESV)

3.6. Further repentance from sin and to come to love in the way that Jesus did is
an inevitable consequence of being born of God i.e. truly believing in Jesus

People are able to repent from sin before coming to believe in Jesus but it's
much easier and inevitable after coming to believe in Jesus.

Sermon :: youtube.com: Killing Lust with the Cross of Christ
Step 1: The sin is cancelled by the blood of Christ. We're Justified before
God, and then Step 2: We purge that sin from our lives; Can't ever get that
backwards. Sin canceled, then sin purged.

God's spirit really helps us to stop sinning. Actively believing in Jesus
should produce the fruit of putting a stop to sin.

We need to heed Jesus' warning that we need to change our minds or perish. We
have to stop believing falsehood and believe the truth, believe/trust Jesus
and Jesus' words:

  Luke 13:3 - No, I tell you; but unless you repent (3340. metanoeó), you
  will all likewise perish. (ESV)

  I John 3:9 - No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed
  abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of
  God. (ESV)

  I John 5:18 - We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep
  on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does
  not touch him. (ESV)

3.7. Knowing God by obeying Jesus and loving with Christ's love implies you have
at some stage been born of God

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

  I John 5:1 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. (ESV)

3.8. Obedience lead to belief which leads to obedience (loving with Christ's love
with the help of God's spirit) which leads to overcoming the world

  I John 5:4 - For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And
  this is the victory that has overcome the world—our faith. (ESV)

3.9. We overcome the world with a new spirit God has given us to wait and trust
on Him and obey Him

  I John 5:4 - For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And
  this is the victory that has overcome the world—our faith. (ESV)

We overcome the world, reigning in life thanks to the free gift of
righteousness through Jesus Christ:

  Romans 5:15-17 - But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many
  died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the
  free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many. And
  the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the
  judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift
  following many trespasses brought justification. If, because of one man's
  trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who
  receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign
  (basileuó) in life through the one man Jesus Christ. (ESV)

Polycarp 5:1
Knowing then that God is not mocked, we ought to walk worthily of His
commandment and His glory.

Polycarp 5:2
In like manner deacons should be blameless in the presence of His
righteousness, as deacons of God and Christ and not of men; not calumniators,
not double-tongued, not lovers of money, temperate in all things,
compassionate, diligent, walking according to the truth of the Lord who
became a minister (deacon) of all. For if we be well pleasing unto Him in
this present world, we shall receive the future world also, according as He
promised us to raise us from the dead, and that if we conduct ourselves
worthily of Him we shall also reign with Him, if indeed we have faith.

  Ezekiel 11:19-20 - And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will
  put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give
  them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules
  and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. (ESV)

We receive the spirit by getting Jesus' words into us, believing them and
obeying them. Feeding on them, we get Jesus' spirit and life into us:

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (ESV)

We can repent from sin as an act of obedient faith to God:

  Jeremiah 4:4 - Circumcise yourselves to the LORD; remove the foreskin of
  your hearts, O men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem; lest my wrath go
  forth like fire, and burn with none to quench it, because of the evil of
  your deeds. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 10:16-17 - Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and
  be no longer stubborn. For the LORD your God is God of gods and Lord of
  lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who is not partial and
  takes no bribe. (ESV)

It's simultaneous:

  James 4:8 - Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your
  hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. (ESV)

And God helps us to do that. God changes our heart to love Him, so that we
will live:

  Deuteronomy 30:6 - And the LORD your God will circumcise your heart and the
  heart of your offspring, so that you will love the LORD your God with all
  your heart and with all your soul, that you may live. (ESV)

I believe that as we believe and obey Jesus, God sends His Spirit to help us
to obey Him.

In other words, believing the gospel and trusting repentance leads to getting
born-again of the Spirit.

I just want to illustrate how people who hear, believe and do are trusting of
Jesus. And we gotta trust Jesus (Isaiah 12:2, Hebrews 12:2). We should
believe Him and obey Him - not one without the other. Believers who are not
obeyers are like people who only turn left. 'Obeyers' who are not believers
are like people who only turn right. People who believe and obey when they
hear any of Jesus' teachings including commandments are like people who take
the straight and narrow. Jesus commanded us to trust in Him so if we hear His
word to trust in Him and we do trust in Him we have become obedient. I think
we're supposed to continue to trust Jesus, and get off the milk and onto the
solid food as Hebrews describes. We have to abide in Jesus' teachings.

  Hebrews 5:14 - But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their
  powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from
  evil. (ESV)

I believe that belief and obedience to Jesus naturally comes before being
born-again of the Spirit, but that obedience is much easier after being
born-again of the Spirit, because this is the way it happened with me, and
it's also scriptural.

  John 14:15-17 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. (ESV)

3.9.1. Marriage should not become idolatry

The Hebrew has two words for 'helper'. The word which the greek in John 14
refers to I believe is the Saviour one:

|  מושיע
|  savior, deliverer, helper, saviour

But the Hebrew for helper in Genesis 2:18 is not the 'saviour' but the
assistant!:

|  עוזר
|  assistant, aide, helper, second

  Genesis 2:18 - Then the Lord (H3068 Yhovah) God (H430 'elohiym) said (H559
  'amar), “It is not good (H2896 towb) for the man (H120 'adam) to be alone
  (H905 bad); I will make (H6213 `asah) him a helper (H5828 `ezer) suitable
  (H5048 neged) for him.”

3.10. The importance of loving one another

Believing Jesus, having the love of God within us, loving Father God, and
loving one another who are children of God, all should be true together:

  John 5:37-42 - And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about
  me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you
  do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he
  has sent. You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have
  eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me, yet you refuse to
  come to me that you may have life. I do not receive glory from people. But
  I know that you do not have the love of God within you. (ESV)

Those who trust Jesus and believe Jesus is the Son of God, now being far more
obedient to God, cheerfully obey His commandments rather than find them
difficult (for example: they find it unburdensome to act like the good
Samaritan):

  I John 5:1-3 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and
  obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his
  commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

We don't justify ourselves. The lawyer here was desiring to justify himself.
God is the justifier. Jesus explains that the one who proved to be a
neighbour is the one who showed compassion for and took care of the helpless
person, taking care of them with mercy:

  Luke 10:25-37 - And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test,
  saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said to him,
  What is written in the Law? How do you read it? And he answered, You shall
  love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with
  all your strength and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself.
  And he said to him, You have answered correctly; do this, and you will
  live. But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my
  neighbor? Jesus replied, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho,
  and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and departed,
  leaving him half dead. Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and
  when he saw him he passed by on the other side. So likewise a Levite, when
  he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a
  Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he
  had compassion. He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and
  wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took
  care of him. And the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the
  innkeeper, saying, Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, I will
  repay you when I come back. Which of these three, do you think, proved to
  be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers? He said, The one who
  showed him mercy. And Jesus said to him, You go, and do likewise. (ESV)

  Romans 3:26 - It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that
  he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

Also being true together with believing Jesus Christ is obeying His
commandments, and being obedient to Him. The way I read the following is,
"Whoever trusts that Jesus is the Son of God overcomes the world through
their believing, obedient faith and God's commandments are no longer
burdensome to them":

  I John 5:4-5 - For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world.
  And this is the victory that has overcome the world—our faith. Who is it
  that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son
  of God? (ESV)

Their heart is purified through faith, believing in and obeying Jesus, and
now they love God and they love the children of God:

  I John 4:7-17 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love
  does not know God, because God is love. In this the love of God was made
  manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we
  might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God but
  that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
  Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has
  ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is
  perfected in us. By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because
  he has given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father
  has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that
  Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. So we have come
  to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and
  whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this is
  love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of
  judgment, because as he is so also are we in this world. (ESV)

To get close to us we must accept God's love and love God back:

  James 4:8 - Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your
  hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. (ESV)

In order to know God we must love one another in the way that God has loved
us:

  I John 4:7-12 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love
  does not know God, because God is love. In this the love of God was made
  manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we
  might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God but
  that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
  Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has
  ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is
  perfected in us. (ESV)

3.11. Receiving the Holy Spirit

So we must receive the Holy Spirit.

I learned a lot from John Piper about this today. I really affirm this
message:

• youtube.com: How to Seek the Holy Spirit

I also really affirm Derek Prince here:

• youtube.com: Accept the Holy Spirit - Derek Prince Sermon

When the following says "they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus",
I'm sure this is baptism in water. It's also apparent that a person may
receive the Holy Spirit at the time they believed, and the passage also seems
to suggest that believing alongside being baptized in water, the person is
expected to receive the Holy Spirit:

  Acts 19:1-6 - And it happened that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul
  passed through the inland country and came to Ephesus. There he found some
  disciples. And he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you
  believed? And they said, No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy
  Spirit. And he said, Into what then were you baptized? They said, Into
  John's baptism. And Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of
  repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after
  him, that is, Jesus. On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the
  Lord Jesus. And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came
  on them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying. (ESV)

Again, these people were baptised in the name of the Lord Jesus, but they
hadn't yet received the Holy Spirit. So the point I'd like to make is that
there may be some delay, or another vector for receiving the Holy Spirit,
such as through the hands of the Apostles:

  Acts 8:14-17 - Now when the apostles at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had
  received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John, who came down
  and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit, for he had not
  yet fallen on any of them, but they had only been baptized in the name of
  the Lord Jesus. Then they laid their hands on them and they received the
  Holy Spirit. (ESV)

For me it was years after being baptised in water that I was born-again of
the Spirit, and being born-again of the Spirit happened shortly after I had
begun seeking God in truth, and repenting from sin.

I think this guy puts it well here:

• youtube.com: There Is No Baptism In The Holy Spirit Without Repentance |
Bishop Macedo Meditation @time: 15 min 19 sec

|  I believe that this answers the
|  questions of many people that say,
|    "Oh, I've bent over backwards to receive the
|    Holy Spirit and I still don't have Him.
|    I've been the church for 30, 50 years, I'm
|    in the church for 47 years and I still
|    haven't received the Holy Spirit."
| 
|  Why? because you haven't repented. You have
|   not repented. And if you are waiting to feel
|   something in order to repent you never
|   repent because it doesn't depend on a
|   feeling.
|  
|    ...
|  
|    But they do not make the decision to
|    abandon their old life. The same thing,
|    you get married but you don't want to
|    stop being single, you want to continue
|    acting as though you are single. Of
|    course your marriage won't work - it's a
|    pretense, it's fake.

Jesus gives both repentance and forgiveness:

  Acts 5:31-32 - God exalted him at his right hand as Leader and Savior, to
  give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And we are witnesses to
  these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who
  obey him. (ESV)

Stephen stressed the importance of being circumcised in the heart (something
that they should have been able to be) and in the same sentence implies that
to be uncircumcised in heart is to resist the Holy Spirit:

  Acts 7:51-53 - You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears,
  you always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you. Which of
  the prophets did not your fathers persecute? And they killed those who
  announced beforehand the coming of the Righteous One, whom you have now
  betrayed and murdered, you who received the law as delivered by angels and
  did not keep it. (ESV)

It's totally fair to say that anybody should be able to circumcise themself
to the LORD, and that makes a person a Jew inwardly. We must repent in this
way:

  Jeremiah 4:4 - Circumcise yourselves to the LORD; remove the foreskin of
  your hearts, O men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem; lest my wrath go
  forth like fire, and burn with none to quench it, because of the evil of
  your deeds. (ESV)

  Romans 2:29 - But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of
  the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man but
  from God. (ESV)

  Ruth 1:15-17 - And she said, See, your sister-in-law has gone back to her
  people and to her gods; return after your sister-in-law. But Ruth said, Do
  not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go
  I will go, and where you lodge I will lodge. Your people shall be my
  people, and your God my God. Where you die I will die, and there will I be
  buried. May the LORD do so to me and more also if anything but death parts
  me from you. (ESV)

I know I had begun to repent according to the 10 commandments even a year in
advance of being born-again of the Spirit in an effort to seek God and I got
born-again.

It's been commanded all the way back here in Deuteronomy:

  Deuteronomy 10:12-17 - And now, Israel, what does the LORD your God require
  of you, but to fear the LORD your God, to walk in all his ways, to love
  him, to serve the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul,
  and to keep the commandments and statutes of the LORD, which I am
  commanding you today for your good? Behold, to the LORD your God belong
  heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth with all that is in it. Yet the
  LORD set his heart in love on your fathers and chose their offspring after
  them, you above all peoples, as you are this day. Circumcise therefore the
  foreskin of your heart, and be no longer stubborn. For the LORD your God is
  God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God,
  who is not partial and takes no bribe. (ESV)

Simon had believed and been baptized but he needed to repent so that his
heart was right before God:

  Acts 8:13-23 - Even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized he
  continued with Philip. And seeing signs and great miracles performed, he
  was amazed. Now when the apostles at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had
  received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John, who came down
  and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit, for he had not
  yet fallen on any of them, but they had only been baptized in the name of
  the Lord Jesus. Then they laid their hands on them and they received the
  Holy Spirit. Now when Simon saw that the Spirit was given through the
  laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money, saying, Give me
  this power also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy
  Spirit. But Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you, because you
  thought you could obtain the gift of God with money! You have neither part
  nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not right before God. Repent,
  therefore, of this wickedness of yours, and pray to the Lord that, if
  possible, the intent of your heart may be forgiven you. For I see that you
  are in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity. (ESV)

3.11.1. Water baptism as an appeal to God

Water baptism is an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the
resurrection of Jesus Christ.

I think baptism of water is an appeal to God and identifying oneself into
Christ's death and resurrection but the sacrament maybe is not strictly
required to be saved (as far as I understand).

  I Peter 3:21 - Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a
  removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good
  conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, (ESV)

3.11.2. We need are sealed with the Holy Spirit through accepting the truth of
the good news of Jesus and God's Living Word works in us to save us

youtube.com: How Do I Know If the Holy Spirit Is in Me?

We are sealed when we give our heart to Jesus, believing / trusting in Him:

  Ephesians 1:13-14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 1:21-22 - And it is God who establishes us with you in
  Christ, and has anointed us, and who has also put his seal on us and given
  us his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. (ESV)

  I John 5:1 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. (ESV)

  Romans 8:9 - You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in
  fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit
  of Christ does not belong to him. (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:30 - And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were
  sealed for the day of redemption. (ESV)

The word of God works in us as we believe and trust Jesus, and are obedient
to Jesus:

  I Thessalonians 2:13 - And we also thank God constantly for this, that when
  you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not
  as the word of men but as what it really is, the word of God, which is at
  work in you believers. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:13-14 - Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by
  becoming a curse for us—for it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged
  on a tree— so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to
  the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.
  (ESV)

It's the power to be changed from doing evil deeds to walking in obedience
and love to God, in a relationship with God:

  Colossians 1:21-23 - And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind,
  doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death,
  in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him,
  if indeed you continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting
  from the hope of the gospel that you heard, which has been proclaimed in
  all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, became a minister. (ESV)

  Romans 1:16 - For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of
  God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to
  the Greek. (ESV)

3.11.3. We need to be born-again and we want to be filled with and baptised by
the Holy Spirit

It's natural to water baptize a person after they believe:

  Acts 8:36-38 - And as they were going along the road they came to some
  water, and the eunuch said, See, here is water! What prevents me from being
  baptized? And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down
  into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. (ESV)

Also, the Lord Jesus Himself baptized Gentile believers in the Holy Spirit,
people who were not yet baptised in water:

  Acts 10:44-48 - While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit
  fell on all who heard the word. And the believers from among the
  circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the
  Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles. For they were hearing them
  speaking in tongues and extolling God. Then Peter declared, Can anyone
  withhold water for baptizing these people, who have received the Holy
  Spirit just as we have? And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of
  Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain for some days. (ESV)

  Matthew 3:11 - I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is
  coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry.
  He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. (ESV)

Interlinear Bible
biblehub.com 3-11.htm: Matthew 3:11 Interlinear

We need to be born of water and the Spirit to enter the kingdom of God:

  John 3:5 - Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born
  of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

And as it happened for me, the water baptism was a precursor to being
born-again of the Spirit spontaneously years later and my Holy Spirit baptism
happened shortly after being born-again of the spirit.

Therefore, I see water baptism as firstly to be baptized into Jesus Christ's
name, in the names of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, and as an appeal to
God for a good conscience through the death and resurrection of Jesus,
appealing also to be born-again of the Spirit and to receive the Holy Spirit
baptism.

And begin born-again of the Spirit and receiving the Holy Spirit helps us to
obey God.

  I Corinthians 2:14 - The natural person does not accept the things of the
  Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand
  them because they are spiritually discerned. (ESV)

  John 3:3-5 - Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born again he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can
  a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's
  womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

3.11.4. The Holy Spirit may teach us even before He is in us, by helping us as
He dwells with us

  John 14:16-21 - And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another
  Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world
  cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him,
  for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans;
  I will come to you. Yet a little while and the world will see me no more,
  but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. In that day you
  will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has
  my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me
  will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.
  (ESV)

3.12. Our will should be for God's will to be done, and to will to do God's will

We may ask God for a willing spirit:

  Psalms 51:10-12 - Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right
  spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your
  Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me
  with a willing spirit. (ESV)

Obedience is good:

  Psalms 40:6-8 - Sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but you have
  given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin offering you have not
  required. Then I said, Behold, I have come; in the scroll of the book it is
  written of me: I desire to do your will, O my God; your law is within my
  heart. (ESV)

I believe that eventually our own will lines up with God's will for us, and I
believe that His will is that we will to do His will, and that we will for
His will to be done. So I believe we should desire both to do His will as God
has revealed to us though the Scriptures, and also to desire that God's will
be done over our own will, but that our will may become His will.

Song
So Will I {100 Billion X} - Hillsong Worship - YouTube

  Matthew 6:10 - Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. (ESV)

  Matthew 26:42 - Again, for the second time, he went away and prayed, My
  Father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it, your will be done. (ESV)

  I Peter 3:17 - For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be
  God's will, than for doing evil. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:19 - Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will
  entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. (ESV)

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

What God does by way of initiative and what we do as a response is
inextricably woven together [to the point where our obedience and God's work
may be indistinguishable]. God turns our enmity to love and our disbelief to
faith:

Sermon
Born Again - Alistair Begg, Parkside Church - YouTube @time: 34 min 12 sec

  Philippians 2:13 - for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work
  for his good pleasure. (ESV)

Paul toils, struggling with all God's energy that God works powerfully within
him:

  Colossians 1:29 - For this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he
  powerfully works within me. (ESV)

Father God in Jesus was also doing His work through Jesus:

  John 14:10 - Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is
  in Me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on My own initiative, but
  the Father abiding in Me does His works. (NASB)

Here it is further echoed by Paul that though these people were acting of
their own free will, they were doing God's will:

Paul commends giving oneself to others by the will of God (their will was
doing God's will):

  II Corinthians 8:3-5 - For they gave according to their means, as I can
  testify, and beyond their means, of their own free will, begging us
  earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints— and
  this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and
  then by the will of God to us. (ESV)

Paul commends both desiring to do the will of God, and then encourages to
complete the work they desire to do, but says that if the will (obedience of
heart) is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has:

  II Corinthians 8:10-12 - And in this matter I give my judgment: this
  benefits you, who a year ago started not only to do this work but also to
  desire to do it. So now finish doing it as well, so that your readiness in
  desiring it may be matched by your completing it out of what you have. For
  if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has,
  not according to what he does not have. (ESV)

In "The Blazing Center: Part 3 - YouTube" John Piper says, "Maybe my will
could correspond to God's will so I could do His will and it would be my
will?!" I agree with him.

And through our obedience to Jesus we are saved. The Bible is clear - a
works-based gospel based on God working through us saves:

  Hebrews 5:8-9 - Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he
  suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation
  to all who obey him, (ESV)

It's actually a faith-based gospel, and the works are a gift. So believing,
obedient faith comes first and God works in us to change our heart to be
transformed to love in the likeness of Jesus:

  Ephesians 2:8-10 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus
  for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
  (ESV)

Jesus can work in a person to bring them to belief in Him.

When you obey Jesus' commandments, Jesus may be working in you, and you may
arrive at belief.

  Psalms 127:1 - Unless the LORD (3068. Yhvh - Phonetic Spelling:
  (yeh-ho-vaw'), Meaning: Jehovah) builds the house, those who build it labor
  in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in
  vain. (ESV)

  Matthew 7:24 - Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them
  will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. (ESV)

Can a person be saved through:

• reading their Bible, or
• listening to the word of Christ?

There are people who would say that a person is not saved through obedience
to the gospel, but by making that claim they are contradicting many
scriptures:

  Hebrews 5:9 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him,

Like the:

• Israelites walking through the Red Sea, or
• Noah building the ark, or
• The lame man standing up to be healed, or
• Peter allowing Jesus to wash his feet

Obedience to the gospel leads to eternal salvation. I believe obedience
should arrive at belief, and belief should yield obedience, and knowledge.

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

Obeying Jesus is quite simply one aspect of having faith in Jesus.

Jesus is the vine. We can do nothing without Jesus working through us. We
just have to be a believing, willing, obedient vessel for Him:

  John 15:4 - Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by
  itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in
  me. (ESV)

That obedience may, for example, look like proclaiming the excellencies of
him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light:

  Luke 8:39 - Return to your home, and declare how much God has done for you.
  And he went away, proclaiming throughout the whole city how much Jesus had
  done for him. (ESV)

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation,
  a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of
  him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. (ESV)

Therefore, we teach people to both believe and to obey the Gospel. When we
obey Jesus' commandments it's actually Jesus working in and through us. We
want Jesus to be able to carry out work in us, so we obey Him - our will and
God's will come into alignment when we obey Jesus' commandments.

In Christ Jesus, through faith in Him (through trusting Him, believing Him,
believing in Him and obeying Him), we have Jesus as our righteousness, and
sanctification and redemption:

  I Corinthians 1:30 - He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom
  God made our wisdom and our righteousness and sanctification and
  redemption. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Be Thou My Vision - Audrey Assad

Believing in your heart is an initial act of obedience before continuing in
the teaching of Christ. If we believe in Him we have obeyed Him, but belief
doesn't end there:

  John 14:1 - “Do not let your heart be troubled; believe (G4100 pisteuo) in
  God, believe (G4100 pisteuo) also in Me. (NASB)

It's imperative that as we go ahead, we must abide in the teaching of Christ,
or we won't have God (Jehovah God), and God is love and love comes from God,
so we need to abide in Christ's teachings, by belief and by obedience. For
example, in Mark 10:18, Jesus affirmed that God is Good. Therefore when we
read this, we must also be sanctified by this truth, affirming and coming
into agreement that God is Good. Also, Jesus commanded us to love one another
as He loved us John 13:34-35:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

And our obedience is not burdensome:

  I John 5:3 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

We receive the spirit by getting Jesus' words into us, believing them and
obeying them. Feeding on them, we get Jesus' spirit and life into us:

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (ESV)

We rest in believing what Jesus has accomplished on our behalf, but our heart
should have become obedient to Jesus.

We don't claim perfect obedience, but God also helps us and supports us:

  Isaiah 64:4 - From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye
  has seen a God besides you, who acts for those who wait for him. (ESV)

Also, waiting on the LORD our strength is renewed:

  Isaiah 40:31 - but they who wait for the LORD shall renew their strength;
  they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be
  weary; they shall walk and not faint. (ESV)

It's crucial to keep Jesus Christ's commandments:

  I John 3:20-24 - for whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than
  our heart, and he knows everything. Beloved, if our heart does not condemn
  us, we have confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him,
  because we keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his
  commandment, that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love
  one another, just as he has commanded us. Whoever keeps his commandments
  abides in him, and he in them. And by this we know that he abides in us, by
  the Spirit whom he has given us. (ESV)

Work flowing from obedience is still totally by grace because we needed Jesus
to obey God perfectly first! We must still obey Jesus.

  II Timothy 1:6-14 - For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift
  of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands, for God gave us
  a spirit not of fear but of power and love and self-control. Therefore do
  not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but
  share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God, who saved us and
  called us to a holy calling, not because of our works but because of his
  own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages
  began, and which now has been manifested through the appearing of our
  Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality
  to light through the gospel, for which I was appointed a preacher and
  apostle and teacher, which is why I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed,
  for I know whom I have believed, and I am convinced that he is able to
  guard until that Day what has been entrusted to me. Follow the pattern of
  the sound words that you have heard from me, in the faith and love that are
  in Christ Jesus. By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good
  deposit entrusted to you. (ESV)

Believing in Jesus should result in continued loving obedience to Jesus
(following Jesus), and doing the work which is similar to the work that Jesus
did:

  John 14:12 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also
  do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I
  am going to the Father. (ESV)

I think works that we can expect to come from believers in Jesus are:

• helping to bring about the obedience of faith
• loving selflessly while not breaking faith with God

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all
  people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

The Apostle John also commands us to:

• follow Jesus' commandment to believe in the name of God's Son Jesus
Christ, and
• love one another just as He commanded us.

  1 John 3:23 - And this is his commandment, that we believe in the name of
  his Son Jesus Christ and love one another, just as he has commanded us.
  (ESV)

Whoever keeps (5083. téreó) His commandments (plural) abides in Jesus, and
Jesus in them. Yes, so I think we must believe Jesus and obey Him:

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us. (ESV)

  John 14:10-15 - Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father
  is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority,
  but the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the
  Father and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works
  themselves. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do
  the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I am
  going to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the
  Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I
  will do it. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. (ESV)

  John 15:13 - Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his
  life for his friends. (ESV)

  John 4:32-34 - But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know
  about. So the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him
  something to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who
  sent me and to accomplish his work. (ESV)

  Romans 16:26 - but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic
  writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of
  the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith — (ESV)

  Romans 15:17-18 - In Christ Jesus, then, I have reason to be proud of my
  work for God. For I will not venture to speak of anything except what
  Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience—by
  word and deed,

Like Jesus, we should do the will of God:

  Hebrews 10:7 - Then I said, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as
  it is written of me in the scroll of the book. (ESV)

3.12.1. Being filled with the Holy Spirit

• Being a servant of God is a likely precursor to being filled with the
Holy Spirit
• Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)
• Speaking the word of God with boldness is a sure sign of being filled
with the Holy Spirit.
• Saying one's own belongings are not our own [but belong to God] is a sure
sign of being filled with the Holy Spirit.
• Giving to others freely to relieve the burdens of others is a
another sure sign.
• Acts 2:45 - And they were selling their possessions and
belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had
need. (ESV)
• Job 1:21 - And he said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and
naked shall I return. The LORD gave, and the LORD has taken away;
blessed be the name of the LORD. (ESV)
• Romans 11:36 - For from him and through him and to him are all
things. To him be glory forever. Amen. (ESV)

  Acts 4:24-35 - And when they heard it, they lifted their voices together to
  God and said, Sovereign Lord, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea
  and everything in them, who through the mouth of our father David, your
  servant, said by the Holy Spirit, Why did the Gentiles rage, and the
  peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers
  were gathered together, against the Lord and against his Anointed— for
  truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant
  Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the
  Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your plan
  had predestined to take place. And now, Lord, look upon their threats and
  grant to your servants to continue to speak your word with all boldness,
  while you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and wonders are
  performed through the name of your holy servant Jesus. And when they had
  prayed, the place in which they were gathered together was shaken, and they
  were all filled with the Holy Spirit and continued to speak the word of God
  with boldness. Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart
  and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was
  his own, but they had everything in common. And with great power the
  apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus,
  and great grace was upon them all. There was not a needy person among them,
  for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the
  proceeds of what was sold and laid it at the apostles' feet, and it was
  distributed to each as any had need. (ESV)

1Clem 2:1
And ye were all lowly in mind and free from arrogance, yielding rather than
claiming submission, more glad to give than to receive, and content with the
provisions which God supplieth. And giving heed unto His words, ye laid them
up diligently in your hearts, and His sufferings were before your eyes.

1Clem 2:2
Thus a profound and rich peace was given to all, and an insatiable desire of
doing good. An abundant outpouring also of the Holy Spirit fell upon all;

3.13. In God's mercy, we come to obedient faith and come into Christ Jesus

"At one time disobedient…" means we are brought to obedience. Therefore,
God's mercy is that we become obedient:

  Romans 11:30-32 - Just as you were at one time disobedient to God but now
  have received mercy because of their disobedience, so they too have now
  been disobedient in order that by the mercy shown to you they also may now
  receive mercy. For God has consigned all to disobedience (543. apeitheia -
  willful unbelief, obstinancy, disobedience), that he may have mercy on all.
  (ESV)

Mercy is so that we can be forgiven and change our ways:

  John 8:11 - She said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn
  you; go, and from now on sin no more. (ESV)

Song
King of Kings {Lyric Video} - Hillsong Worship - YouTube

3.13.1. In Christ Jesus, the blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sin

We trust that our sin is covered by Jesus Christ's blood, as we abide in Him
through belief and obedience:

  Romans 4:5-8 - And to the one who does not work but trusts him who
  justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, just as David
  also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness
  apart from works: Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not
  count his sin. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 1:4-6 - John to the seven churches that are in Asia:
  Grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come, and
  from the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ the
  faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on
  earth. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood and
  made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and
  dominion forever and ever. Amen. (ESV)

In Jesus Christ we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins, and are
transferred into the Kingdom of Jesus Christ:

  Colossians 1:13-14 - He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and
  transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have
  redemption, the forgiveness of sins. (ESV)

As we walk in the light, as He is in the light, that is in the Truth, walking
in, believing, professing and obeying Jesus Christ in Truth, the blood of
Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin:

  I John 1:6-7 - If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in
  darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the
  light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the
  blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. (ESV)

We are sanctified in the Spirit for obedience to Jesus Christ, and for
sprinkling with His blood:

  I Peter 1:2 - according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the
  sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for
  sprinkling with his blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you. (ESV)

  Hebrews 7:22 - This makes Jesus the guarantor of a better covenant. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:9-14 - then he added, Behold, I have come to do your will. He
  abolishes the first in order to establish the second. And by that will we
  have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once
  for all. And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly
  the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But when Christ had
  offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right
  hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a
  footstool for his feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all
  time those who are being sanctified. (ESV)

We are ransomed:

  I Peter 1:18-19 - knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways
  inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver
  or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without
  blemish or spot. (ESV)

The blood of Jesus secures an eternal redemption:

  Hebrews 9:11-15 - But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good
  things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not
  made with hands, that is, not of this creation) he entered once for all
  into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by
  means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the
  sprinkling of defiled persons with the blood of goats and bulls and with
  the ashes of a heifer sanctifies for the purification of the flesh, how
  much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered
  himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to
  serve the living God. Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so
  that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance,
  since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions
  committed under the first covenant. (ESV)

The eternal redemption is in Christ Jesus:

  Ephesians 1:7 - In him we have redemption through his blood, the
  forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, (ESV)

  Hebrews 5:9-10 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after
  the order of Melchizedek. (ESV)

3.14. Obedience is absolutely within our ability

God's commandments are not too difficult to follow.

We may ask God for a willing spirit:

  Psalms 51:10-12 - Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right
  spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your
  Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me
  with a willing spirit. (ESV)

Love the LORD your God:

  Deuteronomy 30:10-11 - when you obey the voice of the LORD your God, to
  keep his commandments and his statutes that are written in this Book of the
  Law, when you turn to the LORD your God with all your heart and with all
  your soul. For this commandment that I command you today is not too hard
  for you, neither is it far off. (ESV)

Serve God:

  Joshua 22:5 - Only be very careful to observe the commandment and the law
  that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded you, to love the LORD your
  God, and to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments and to cling
  to him and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. (ESV)

Love God [from the heart and soul] so that we may live:

  Deuteronomy 30:6 - And the LORD your God will circumcise your heart and the
  heart of your offspring, so that you will love the LORD your God with all
  your heart and with all your soul, that you may live. (ESV)

To love your neighbour as yourself means forgiving them too, and remember
that Jesus forgave us. It also means to not take vengeance (Christ's law
includes not rendering evil for evil):

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

Jesus' commandments us to even love one another, anyone around you, with
selfless love:

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all
  people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

And the Apostle John echos that the commandment is still extremely important:

  II John 1:5-6 - And now I ask you, dear lady—not as though I were writing
  you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning—that we
  love one another. And this is love, that we walk according to his
  commandments; this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the
  beginning, so that you should walk in it. (ESV)

Loving our neighbour as ourself should look like showing merciful love to
those around you:

  Luke 10:29-37 - But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who
  is my neighbor? Jesus replied, A man was going down from Jerusalem to
  Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and
  departed, leaving him half dead. Now by chance a priest was going down that
  road, and when he saw him he passed by on the other side. So likewise a
  Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side.
  But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw
  him, he had compassion. He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on
  oil and wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn
  and took care of him. And the next day he took out two denarii and gave
  them to the innkeeper, saying, Take care of him, and whatever more you
  spend, I will repay you when I come back. Which of these three, do you
  think, proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers? He
  said, The one who showed him mercy. And Jesus said to him, You go, and do
  likewise. (ESV)

We should be loving our neighbour continually:

  John 13:1 - Now before the Feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his
  hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his
  own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. (ESV)

  Mark 12:30-31 - And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart
  and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.
  The second is this: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no
  other commandment greater than these. (ESV)

  Mark 12:32-34 - And the scribe said to him, You are right, Teacher. You
  have truly said that he is one, and there is no other besides him. And to
  love him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the
  strength, and to love one's neighbor as oneself, is much more than all
  whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered
  wisely, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And after
  that no one dared to ask him any more questions. (ESV)

We are supposed to fulfill the Royal Law, even after having received
forgiveness:

  James 2:1 - My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our
  Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. (ESV)

  James 2:8-9 - If you really fulfill the royal law according to the
  Scripture, You shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well.
  But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the
  law as transgressors. (ESV)

The same way that Jesus loved, selflessly:

  Galatians 6:2 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ. (ESV)

Loving one another includes forgiving one another. Forgiving others means not
holding a grudge:

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

We should aim to fulfill these great commandments while being merciful:

  James 2:11-13 - For he who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not
  murder. If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a
  transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as those who are to be judged
  under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to one who has
  shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. (ESV)

It's perfect self-humbling obedience without committing sin which only Jesus
Christ managed to reach, was able to reach and was destined to reach:

  Philippians 2:8 - And being found in human form, he humbled himself by
  becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. (ESV)

We come to having obedient faith in God through obedient faith in Jesus
Christ.

Jesus Christ obeyed Father God perfectly, and sinners put Him to death, and
He became the source of eternal salvation to all those who obey Him:

  Hebrews 5:8-9 - Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he
  suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation
  to all who obey him, (ESV)

  John 1:29 - The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, Behold,
  the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! (ESV)

3.14.1. Observing Jesus, continuing to believe in Him and believe His words and
abide in His word, we will live forever

We should be led into the knowledge of the Truth:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

We should come into a relationship with Jesus Christ and with Father God:

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

Anyone who believes in Jesus Christ, the Only Son of God, is not condemned.
But the person who is not believing in Jesus Christ, the Only Son of God is
condemned already:

  John 3:18 - Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not
  believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of
  the only Son of God. (ESV)

There is always more chances to believe:

  Romans 11:23-24 - And even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief,
  will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again. For if
  you were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and grafted,
  contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these,
  the natural branches, be grafted back into their own olive tree. (ESV)

In believing we have eternal life, but we need to continue in obedience to
Jesus Christ or will not see life, so there should be a change of behaviour.
We should have changed to serve God. Even if "apeitheó" is better translated
to "not be pursuaded", trusting in Jesus Christ is still obedience. Unless
you believe that trusting in Jesus is disobedience, which it is not. It's
obedient to trust in Jesus because He commanded it in John 14:1. They're not
separate things. A heart that is pursuaded to trust Jesus is an obedient
heart:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

Jesus Christ is our Lord and Teacher - that means we believe and obey Him:

  John 13:13-14 - You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I
  am. If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought
  to wash one another's feet. (ESV)

If you hear Jesus' word and believe Father God, then you have eternal life,
and don't come into judgement. I don't doubt it. We must continue trusting.
But the enemy will certainly try to condemn the person after they are
born-again.

Trusting Jesus' words we do not come into judgement, but change direction,
and instead our destiny is life eternal. We do not come into judgement. Jesus
is the judge of that:

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word (191.
  akouó) and believes (4100. pisteuó) him who sent me has eternal life. He
  does not come (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed (3327.
  metabain) from death to life. (ESV)

I think John 5:24 reads that the one who is trusting the words spoken through
Jesus, trusting God, trusting Jesus is holds/posesses eternal life and has
passed from death into life.

2064. erchomai
to come, go

3327. metabain
to pass over, withdraw, depart

If we actually believe Jesus Christ is who He says He is, the Son of God,
Messiah, we are not condemned. We're never condemned if we are believing in
Jesus Christ, Son of God:

  John 6:35 - Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me
  shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. (ESV)

If you look upon Jesus Christ and believe in Him, you should have eternal
life:

  John 6:40-44 - For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks
  on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise
  him up on the last day. So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, I
  am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is not this Jesus, the
  son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have
  come down from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among
  yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him.
  And I will raise him up on the last day. (ESV)

  John 6:47-51 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal
  life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness,
  and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one
  may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from
  heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread
  that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. (ESV)

  John 6:53-58 - So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless
  you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life
  in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and
  I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my
  blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides
  in me, and I in him. As the living Father sent me, and I live because of
  the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This
  is the bread that came down from heaven, not as the fathers ate and died.
  Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. (ESV)

Eternal life is given to anyone who believes in Him. I guess there are simply
some things I wont understand fully, but I do believe it. I trust in God, and
lean not on my own understanding. I believe Jesus' words that are written in
the Scriptures:

  John 6:47 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life.
  (ESV)

  I John 2:27 - But the anointing that you received from him abides in you,
  and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing
  teaches you about everything—and is true and is no lie, just as it has
  taught you—abide in him. (ESV)

  I John 2:24 - Let what you heard from the beginning abide in you. If what
  you heard from the beginning abides in you, then you too will abide in the
  Son and in the Father. (ESV)

God commanded eternal life for those who believe: God's word never comes back
void:

  Isaiah 55:11 - so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth; it shall
  not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and
  shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. (ESV)

In this current time (world) we may receive more than we lose for the sake of
the kingdom, and eternal life is also received in the age to come:

  Luke 18:29-30 - And he said to them, Truly, I say to you, there is no one
  who has left house or wife or brothers or parents or children, for the sake
  of the kingdom of God, who will not receive many times more in this time,
  and in the age to come eternal life. (ESV)

I do not affirm all religions. But I affirm Romans 10:9. I affirm that
individual people are saved through belief and I think it should be true
belief that's in the heart:

  Romans 10:9 - because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord
  and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be
  saved. (ESV)

We should definitely confess Jesus to others:

  Luke 12:8-9 - And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the
  Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God, but the one who
  denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. (ESV)

Everything is in subjection to Jesus, God has left nothing outside Jesus'
control.

From our perspective it may look like things are still being brought into
subjection to Him. It still looks that way to me:

  Ephesians 1:22 - And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head
  over all things to the church,

  Hebrews 2:5-8 - Now it was not to angels that God subjected the world to
  come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere, What is
  man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you care for him?
  You made him for a little while lower than the angels; you have crowned him
  with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now
  in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his
  control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him.

Everything is put in subjection under Jesus and in subjection under Father
God:

  I Corinthians 15:24-28 - Then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom
  to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and
  power. For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.
  The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For God has put all things in
  subjection under his feet. But when it says, all things are put in
  subjection, it is plain that he is excepted who put all things in
  subjection under him. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son
  himself will also be subjected to him who put all things in subjection
  under him, that God may be all in all.

Including our own mortal bodies!

  Philippians 3:21 - who will transform our lowly body to be like his
  glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to
  himself. (ESV)

Consider that in truthfully confessing that Jesus is Lord, that person has
faith in Jesus, and in believing in their heart that God raised Him from the
dead, that person has faith in God even in the matter that Jesus was
resurrected, even for our justification. So it's faith not only in the
finished work of Christ on the cross, but faith in Jesus Himself.

That's important in my opinion because we must trust Jesus Himself to follow
Him, to love Him, to keep His words, to keep His commandments, to keep our
eyes on Him, to abide by His teaching.

youtube.com: John Piper - Saved Forever @time: 9 min 58 sec
Salvation is not static, as though I did something once to get saved (I
believed), and God did something once to save me (He sent Jesus to die and
rise from the dead) and that's all there is to it. Now this verse is one
screaming announcement that is not all there is to it and what I want to try
to do in these last moments is is take a Sunday school understanding that's
true that simple past, "I believe, He died, I'm saved - period" and grow it
into biblical proportions with a verse like Hebrews 7:25 because Hebrews 7:25
says there is not only more that Jesus did, there is more that you do as
well. What Jesus does is go on praying for you, interceding for you, coming
between you and the Father and making a case for you, and standing up for
you.

And out of the heart should flow rivers of living water. Now that
re-emphasises that belief should be in the heart:

  John 7:38 - Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, Out of his
  heart will flow rivers of living water. (ESV)

Walk as an imitator of Christ:

  Philippians 3:17-18 - Brothers, join in imitating me, and keep your eyes on
  those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many, of whom I
  have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of
  the cross of Christ. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 11:1 - Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ. (ESV)

We must be imitators of Christ Jesus. See what Paul is doing as an example of
imitating Christ. We repent from sin, we do what God says, we are accountable
to God with His precepts and are doers of His commandments, we forgive others
as we've been forgiven and we love others as we've been loved, and we have
our minds set on heavenly things and the promises of God:

  Philippians 3:12-21 - Not that I have already obtained this or am already
  perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me
  his own. Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one
  thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies
  ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God
  in Christ Jesus. Let those of us who are mature think this way, and if in
  anything you think otherwise, God will reveal that also to you. Only let us
  hold true to what we have attained. Brothers, join in imitating me, and
  keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us.
  For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears,
  walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction, their god
  is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly
  things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior,
  the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his
  glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to
  himself. (ESV)

Do not be an enemy of the cross of Christ, submit to the righteousness of God
- we needed Jehovah God, Father of Jesus Christ, to pay for our sin - and we
must imitate Christ, passing forward Christ's love and forgiving as we have
been forgiven, and repenting from sin:

  Hebrews 13:7 - Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you the word of
  God. Consider the outcome of their way of life, and imitate their faith.
  (ESV)

  III John 1:11 - Beloved, do not imitate evil but imitate good. Whoever does
  good is from God; whoever does evil has not seen God. (ESV)

  Jude 1:4 - For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were
  designated for this condemnation, ungodly people, who pervert the grace of
  our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.
  (ESV)

  Jude 1:4 - For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of
  old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of our
  God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our Lord Jesus
  Christ. (KJV)

3.14.2. We are saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ

It's God's grace that enables us to be saved through faith. While we are
saved exercising obedient, trusting, believing faith, Paul says it was
actually God's doing:

  Ephesians 2:8 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is
  not your own doing; it is the gift of God, (ESV)

Just because we're gifted repentance to life, that doesn't mean that to go
ahead and obediently repent makes the gift of repentance no longer a gift!

  Acts 11:18 - When they heard these things they fell silent. And they
  glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance
  that leads to life.

There are varying amounts of grace given to each person according to mercy,
need or stewardship:

  Romans 12:6-8 - Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to
  us, let us use them: if prophecy, in proportion to our faith; if service,
  in our serving; the one who teaches, in his teaching; the one who exhorts,
  in his exhortation; the one who contributes, in generosity; the one who
  leads, with zeal; the one who does acts of mercy, with cheerfulness. (ESV)

  Ephesians 3:2 - assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's
  grace that was given to me for you, (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:7 - But grace was given to each one of us according to the
  measure of Christ's gift. (ESV)

  Romans 12:3 - For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not
  to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with
  sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has
  assigned. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:10 - As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as
  good stewards of God's varied grace: (ESV)

  I Corinthians 12:7-11 - To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit
  for the common good. To one is given through the Spirit the utterance of
  wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same
  Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by
  the one Spirit, to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to
  another the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another various
  kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues. All these are
  empowered by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one
  individually as he wills. (ESV)

We can still ask for more grace when we are in need:

  Hebrews 4:16 - Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of
  grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.
  (ESV)

God gives grace to the humble (not the self-righteous). That is true. But
recognising your own sin and calling it sin is humility. And in wanting to
turn from it, God may give grace to do so:

  James 4:6 - But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the
  proud, but gives grace to the humble. (ESV)

Sermon
The Heart of the Gospel - YouTube

We believe on Jesus Christ and receive eternal life, and we are saved through
Jesus Christ. We see that Jesus Christ obeyed God perfectly and He is the
light. We have our hope on Jesus to save us when we believe on Him. We should
trust Jesus enough to obey His commandments when we are presented with
opportunities to glorify God with our actions. God works through us as we
obey Jesus.

  John 3:16-19 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God
  did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that
  the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not
  condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he
  has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the
  judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness
  rather than the light because their deeds were evil. (ESV)

We must hear the words of God. If we hear them then we are of God. I know I
hear them. If we keep Jesus' word (obey Jesus) we will not see death:

  John 8:47 - Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do
  not hear them is that you are not of God. (ESV)

  John 8:51 - Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will
  never see death. (ESV)

To keep Jesus' word means to hear them and to obey:

  Proverbs 7:1-3 - My son, keep my words and treasure up my commandments with
  you; keep my commandments and live; keep my teaching as the apple of your
  eye; bind them on your fingers; write them on the tablet of your heart.
  (ESV)

Keeping means, not only having them but also keeping, obeying them:

  John 14:21-24 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who
  loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love
  him and manifest myself to him. Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, Lord, how
  is it that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world? Jesus
  answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will
  love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. Whoever does
  not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine
  but the Father's who sent me. (ESV)

Lord of Eternity - Fernando Ortega (Live)
Lord of Eternity; Blessed is the man; Who walks in Your favor; Who loves all
Your words; And hides them like treasure; In the darkest place; Of his
desperate heart, They are a light; A strong, sure light.

Essentially, we must believe Jesus. We must not reject Jesus. We must receive
Jesus' words. We must be teachable by Jesus:

  John 12:48 - The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
  judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. (ESV)

Jesus comes to dwell in our hearts through faith, His spirit in our inner
being, as we are rooted and grounded in love:

  Ephesians 3:14-21 - For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from
  whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that according to the
  riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through
  his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts
  through faith—that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have
  strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length
  and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses
  knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now to him
  who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think,
  according to the power at work within us, to him be glory in the church and
  in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. (ESV)

  I John 5:3 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

  John 8:55 - But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I
  do not know him, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and I keep
  his word. (ESV)

We are not condemned if we believe in the name of Jesus Christ, the only Son
of God. That's really good news!:

  John 3:18 - Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not
  believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of
  the only Son of God. (ESV)

AMEN!!

Trusting Jesus' words we do not come into judgement, but change direction,
and instead our destiny is life eternal. We do not come into judgement. Jesus
is the judge of that:

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word (191.
  akouó) and believes (4100. pisteuó) him who sent me has eternal life. He
  does not come (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed (3327.
  metabain) from death to life. (ESV)

I think John 5:24 reads that the one who is trusting the words spoken through
Jesus, trusting God, trusting Jesus is holds/posesses eternal life and has
passed from death into life.

2064. erchomai
to come, go

3327. metabain
to pass over, withdraw, depart

AMEN!!

  II Timothy 2:11 - The saying is trustworthy, for: If we have died with him,
  we will also live with him; (ESV)

Justification comes through through the righteousness of living by faith:

  Habakkuk 2:4 - Behold, his soul is puffed up; it is not upright within him,
  but the righteous shall live by his faith. (ESV)

We are justified by His grace as a free gift through the redemption that is
in Christ Jesus, received by [living by] faith:

  Romans 3:21-25 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. (ESV)

Even the new believer is not condemned:

  I Corinthians 3:1 - But I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual
  people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ. (ESV)

And as we know, no-one in Christ is condemned:

  Romans 8:1 - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in
  Christ Jesus.

youtube.com: God Is Our Savior from What? 1 Timothy 1:1-2, Part 2 @time: 5
min 20 sec

There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.
This was the main problem.

…

The main problem is God's response to sin is a legal and just and holy
condemnation - we must escape this. And in Christ Jesus we are saved from
condemnation.

  Romans 5:9 - Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood,
  much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. (ESV)

We must continue in our faith. We must continue to believe Jesus and trust in
Jesus:

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

I believe that we are saved not because of our own merit, but, still,
obedience to the Gospel leads to righteousness which leads to salvation:

  Hebrews 5:9 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, (ESV)

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

  John 14:15-16 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, (ESV)

  John 15:26 - But when the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the
  Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear
  witness about me. (ESV)

  Romans 6:16-18 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone
  as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But
  thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient
  from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,
  and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.
  (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:7-10 - for God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and
  love and self-control. Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about
  our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by
  the power of God, who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because
  of our works but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in
  Christ Jesus before the ages began, and which now has been manifested
  through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and
  brought life and immortality to light through the gospel, (ESV)

I believe that becoming the righteousness of God is cooperative in that we
allow Jesus to wash us, and work in us, and that a childlike trust in Jesus
(a believing and obedient trust), following Jesus, walking in faith, and
behaving as one of God's children is how we receive and walk into the kingdom
which is given to us and that walking (living, katergazomai) in a childlike
faith in Jesus is how we have the righteousness that is by faith. Living by
faith is walking in faith, is following Jesus. I really wish there was not a
chapter break between these two verses because it's revealing to to read them
side by side:

  II Corinthians 5:21-6:1 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no
  sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Working
  together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God
  in vain. (ESV)

  James 2:22 - You see that faith (G4102 pistis) was working with (4903.
  sunergeó) his works (G2041 ergon), and as a result of the works (G2041
  ergon), faith (G4102 pistis) was perfected (G5048 teleioo);

4903. sunergeó
Definition: to work together. Usage: I cooperate with, work together.

We should disobey sin, and present ourselves to God as those alive from the
dead, and our members as instruments of righteousness to God. We should be
practicing righteousness, practicing love and holiness and truth:

  Romans 6:12-13 - Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that
  you obey its lusts, and do not go on presenting the members of your body to
  sin as instruments of unrighteousness; but present yourselves to God as
  those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness
  to God. (NASB)

3.14.3. We become obedient to Jesus

The righteous try to be obedient. They make mistakes sometimes, they mess up
sometimes but they return to God with the fear of God (they repent):

  Proverbs 24:15-18 - Lie not in wait as a wicked man against the dwelling of
  the righteous; do no violence to his home; for the righteous falls seven
  times and rises again, but the wicked stumble in times of calamity. Do not
  rejoice when your enemy falls, and let not your heart be glad when he
  stumbles, lest the LORD see it and be displeased, and turn away his anger
  from him. (ESV)

  John Piper - "Mercy means that our obedience doesn't have to be perfect, it
  has to be penitent."

He paid the price for our sin:

  Romans 4:25 - who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our
  justification. (ESV)

And we are justified and have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
who we are following:

  Romans 5:1 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

Long before we ever believed in / obeyed Jesus, God had chosen us to believe
in Him and to take part in His holy calling:

  II Timothy 1:9 - who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because
  of our works but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in
  Christ Jesus before the ages began, (ESV)

  Jeremiah 1:4-5 - Now the word of the LORD came to me, saying, Before I
  formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated
  you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations. (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:13 - Follow the pattern of the sound words that you have heard
  from me, in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

We love our neighbour the way Jesus commanded:

  I Corinthians 9:21 - To those outside the law I became as one outside the
  law (not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ) that I
  might win those outside the law. (ESV)

  Galatians 6:2 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ. (ESV)

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all
  people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

Jesus loved us selflessly. We should love one another selflessly:

  John 15:13 - Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his
  life for his friends. (ESV)

We should disobey sin, and present ourselves to God as those alive from the
dead, and our members as instruments of righteousness to God. We should be
practicing righteousness, practicing love and holiness and truth:

  Romans 6:12-13 - Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that
  you obey its lusts, and do not go on presenting the members of your body to
  sin as instruments of unrighteousness; but present yourselves to God as
  those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness
  to God. (NASB)

3.14.4. There's some bonuses to suffering for Christ's sake and for endurance

If we keep His commandments, keep His works we will reign with Him:

  II Timothy 2:12-13 - if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny
  him, he also will deny us; if we are faithless, he remains faithful— for he
  cannot deny himself. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 2:26 - The one who conquers and who keeps my works until
  the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, (ESV)

  Romans 8:17 - and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs
  with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be
  glorified with him. (ESV)

But suffering for Christ's sake should be for giving glory to Jesus:

3.14.5. Eternal life and salvation is a gift received through faith and
obedience to God

We put our hope on Him to be our High Priest and Advocate, we obey Him as He
saves us.

These should really go hand in hand:

• Believing in Jesus Christ for His finished work to receive justification
and eternal life and remain in relationship with Father God and with
Jesus
• Obeying Jesus Christ (repenting from sin, loving God and your neighbour)
to be saved from the wrath of God should really go hand-in-hand.
• Toss Me in the Water - YouTube @time: 3 min 37 sec
• youtube.com: Live Like You Belong in Heaven: Philippians 3:18-21,
Part 7

When you believe Jesus' words you are trusting of Jesus. If you believe Jesus
then you believe when He says He is the Son of God, for example. Someone who
hears Jesus' voice and does it is someone who believes Jesus and trusts Him.
A person can have a heart of obedience to Jesus and that's a heart of trust,
it's a heart of belief. If you trust Jesus you will believe what He says and
you will have obedience to Him.

At it's most basic form repentance (metanoia) means a person changes their
mind to believe and trust and have a heart of obedience - accepting of the
will of God. To repent means stop distrusting and start trusting God.

We have believe Jesus and to trust Jesus. When Jesus says He is the Son of
God, we must believe it because we trust Him. Likewise when He commands us to
repent from sinning we should agree with Jesus and be obedient:

  John 16:8-9 - And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin
  and righteousness and judgment: concerning sin, because they do not believe
  in me; (ESV)

We need to heed Jesus' warning that we need to change our minds or perish. We
have to stop believing falsehood and believe the truth, believe/trust Jesus
and Jesus' words:

  Luke 13:3 - No, I tell you; but unless you repent (3340. metanoeó), you
  will all likewise perish. (ESV)

We keep eyes on Jesus and trust Him:

  Hebrews 12:2 - looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith,
  who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the
  shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. (ESV)

  Isaiah 12:2 - Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and will not be
  afraid; for the LORD GOD is my strength and my song, and he has become my
  salvation. (ESV)

We must be taught by Jesus. We must be teachable. We must accept what God
says and accept he one He sent (Jesus):

  II John 1:9 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching
  of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the
  Father and the Son. (ESV)

Here is a verse that shows that repenting from evil deeds is important:

  Revelation of John 2:22 - Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and
  those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great tribulation,
  unless they repent of her works, (ESV)

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

We endeavour to be justified in Christ - in Christ means abiding in Christ -
through faith; trusting, believing, obedient faith:

  Galatians 2:16-19 - yet we know that a person is not justified by works of
  the law but through faith (G4102 pistis) in Jesus Christ, so we also have
  believed (G4100 pisteuo) in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith
  in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one
  will be justified. But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we
  too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly
  not! For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a
  transgressor. For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live
  to God. (ESV)

Abraham's trusting faith was counted to him as righteousness. I guess it was
counted because he was fully conviced, and trusting God. This same
justification will be counted to those who trust in God who raised from the
dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for
our justification:

  Romans 4:20-25 - No distrust (apistia) made him waver concerning the
  promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,
  fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why
  his faith was counted to him as righteousness. But the words it was counted
  to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be
  counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord,
  who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.
  (ESV)

We believe that our justification comes by faith so we place our trust in God
and continue trusting; we just get on with living for God and serving God and
trusting in God for that justification as we serve God and live in the peace
of God. We don't justify ourselves. We have faith in God that He will/does
justify us, and we get on with living for and serving God:

  Romans 5:1-2 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also
  obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice
  in hope of the glory of God. (ESV)

Being justified by Jesus' blood, we are saved by Him from the wrath of God.
We have faith in God also to be saved from the wrath of God. That come with
God asking us to turn from our sin:

  Romans 5:9 - Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood,
  much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. (ESV)

Continuing to be sanctified by faith is a process where a person continues in
Jesus' words because they are sanctified by faith in Jesus and that means
ongoing trust and faithful obedience.

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness
  of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. (ESV)

To be sanctified by faith in Jesus is an applied process, I think:

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness
  of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. (ESV)

• Immediately we are reconciled to God by the death of His Son. We are
justified,
• and then we are saved from the wrath of God by His life, repenting from
sin and keeping His commandments, being sanctified, not resisting the
Holy Spirit's work of sanctifying us to correcct out behaviour and
thoughts, and separated from the world, since friendship with the world
is emnity with God
• Ephesians 2:3 - among whom we all once lived in the passions of our
flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were
by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. (ESV)
• also, we meanwhile rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ

  Romans 5:8-11 - but God shows his love for us in that while we were still
  sinners, Christ died for us. Since, therefore, we have now been justified
  by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For
  if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son,
  much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. More
  than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through
  whom we have now received reconciliation. (ESV)

Jesus' act of obedience leads to:

• justification
• life
• I believe that the life of Jesus helps us to stop sinning
• youtube.com: The Effort Needed to Fight Sin: Living Out
Identity in Christ, Part 2
• Even though we are born of the Spirit, we still live the rest of the
time on earth in obedience to Jesus to get to know Jesus and become
like Him in His death

  Romans 5:18 - Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men,
  so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men.
  (ESV)

  I Peter 2:24 - He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we
  might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been
  healed. (ESV)

Faith presses on, faithful to Jesus, walking in the manner which Jesus walked
- even to spend the rest of the time on earth being obedient to Jesus to know
Jesus and the power of His resurrection, becoming like Him in His death (i.e.
being faithful to God, stopping sin, exercising righteousness, becoming a
scapegoat, even to death like the Apostles, sharing in His sufferings, living
has He lived) and His resurrection:

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

We are saved from the wrath of God by the life of Jesus Christ. I think
that's in part saying that the life of Jesus helps us to stop practicing
sinful things:

  Ephesians 5:5-7 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is
  sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has
  no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you
  with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon
  the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not associate with them;

  Ephesians 2:3 - among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh,
  carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature
  children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. (ESV)

That's confirmed here:

  I John 3:5-6 - You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him
  there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who
  keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.

We need to obey Jesus to see the life. That obedience isn't "working" but it
is "performing/carrying out" but our justification isn't contingent on
"working":

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

On the other hand, if we obey Jesus we will never see death:

  John 8:51 - Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will
  never see death. (ESV)

In treasuring Jesus' words, keeping them, guarding them, observing them, in
Him the agape (treasuring, valuing love) has truly been perfected. Having
Jesus' teachings in us clearly should result in us walking as He did:

  I John 2:5-6 - but whoever keeps (5083. téreó) His word (G3056 logos), in
  him the love (G26 agape) of God (G2316 theos) has truly been perfected
  (G5048 teleioo). By this we know (G1097 ginosko) that we are in Him:
  whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he
  walked. (ESV)

Repent, be sanctified, love God and your neighbour, believe and obey Jesus:

  Luke 10:25-28 - And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test,
  saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said to him,
  What is written in the Law? How do you read it? And he answered, You shall
  love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with
  all your strength and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself.
  And he said to him, You have answered correctly; do this, and you will
  live. (ESV)

youtube.com: Steven Curtis Chapman - For The Sake Of The Call
We will abandon it all for the sake of the call; No other reason at all but
the sake of the call; Wholly devoted to live and to die; Not for the sake of
a creed or a cause; Not for a dream or a promise; Simply because it is Jesus
who called; And if we believe we'll obey

Repent from sin and receive with meekness the implanted word, the gospel of
Jesus Christ, which is able to save us, and persevere with it and allow it to
change us:

  James 1:21-24 - Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness
  and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your
  souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving
  yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is
  like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. For he looks
  at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. (ESV)

  Matthew 24:9-13 - Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you
  to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then
  many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. And many
  false prophets will arise and lead many astray. And because lawlessness
  will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures
  to the end will be saved. (ESV)

Being saved by Him I think involves us becoming obedient, and faithfully
obeying Jesus Christ our Lord:

  Ephesians 5:5-10 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is
  sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has
  no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you
  with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon
  the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not associate with them; for at one
  time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children
  of light (for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and
  true), and try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord.

Eternal life is in Jesus:

  Romans 6:23 - For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is
  eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

  I John 5:11 - And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and
  this life is in his Son. (ESV)

We receive / walk into the eternal life through faith in Jesus:

  John 10:27-28 - My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
  me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will
  snatch them out of my hand. (ESV)

If you hear Jesus' words which came from God and trust God then you have
eternal life:

Trusting Jesus' words we do not come into judgement, but change direction,
and instead our destiny is life eternal. We do not come into judgement. Jesus
is the judge of that:

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word (191.
  akouó) and believes (4100. pisteuó) him who sent me has eternal life. He
  does not come (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed (3327.
  metabain) from death to life. (ESV)

I think John 5:24 reads that the one who is trusting the words spoken through
Jesus, trusting God, trusting Jesus is holds/posesses eternal life and has
passed from death into life.

2064. erchomai
to come, go

3327. metabain
to pass over, withdraw, depart

  John 7:16 - So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who
  sent me. (ESV)

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

  I Timothy 6:3-4 - If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree
  with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords
  with godliness, he is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He
  has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about words,
  which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, (ESV)

3.15. Treasuring anything else more than God is sin

Quote by Tim Keller
Know what the Bible says: Sin is craving something more than God. Sin is
making something more important than God. Sin is is living for something more
than God. If God is at the periphery of your life, if you're just religious
occasionally, if God [is] sort of on the outskirts of your life, that is sin.
That's the essence of sin.

  Luke 10:27-28 - And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all
  your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all
  your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And he said to him, You have
  answered correctly; do this, and you will live. (ESV)

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

youtube.com: Love Jesus More Than You Love Anything

  Philippians 3:8 - Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the
  surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have
  suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I
  may gain Christ (ESV)

3.15.1. Eschatology

I really appreciated Allie's video here
youtube.com: Eschatology, End Times and What's to Come | Ep 134

Before the second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ there is the appearance of
the "man of lawlessness":

  II Thessalonians 2:1-4 - Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ
  and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be
  quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or
  a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has
  come. Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come, unless
  the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son
  of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called god
  or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God,
  proclaiming himself to be God. (ESV)

3.15.2. How we should act how we're instructed to act while awaiting the Lord's
return

Sermon
youtube.com: Live with the End in View

  Luke 21:36 - But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have
  strength to escape all these things that are going to take place, and to
  stand before the Son of Man. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:7-11 - The end of all things is at hand; therefore be
  self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. Above all,
  keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins.
  Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. As each has received a
  gift, use it to serve one another, as good stewards of God's varied grace:
  whoever speaks, as one who speaks oracles of God; whoever serves, as one
  who serves by the strength that God supplies—in order that in everything
  God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion
  forever and ever. Amen. (ESV)

Jesus doesn't delay. We must be vigilant and ready to serve Jesus:

  Hebrews 10:37 - For, Yet a little while, and the coming one will come and
  will not delay; (ESV)

  Matthew 24:48 - But if that wicked servant says to himself, My master is
  delayed, (ESV)

God wants as many people as possible to be saved (I think of this a bit like
as 'delaying' the second coming - my own speculation on eschatology is just
me speculating), but not like delaying Jesus' work, as we should be vigilant
about anticipating Jesus. Jesus does not delay. Jesus literally visits people
imminently in this life time, and we should also consider the second coming
of the Lord Jesus Christ to be imminent:

  I Timothy 2:4 - who desires all people to be saved and to come to the
  knowledge of the truth. (ESV)

  John 1:12-13 - But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to
  become children of God, even to those who believe in His name, who were
  born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but
  of God. (NASB)

hymnary.org: All People That on Earth Do Dwell | Hymnary.org
All people that on earth do dwell, sing to the LORD with cheerful voice; Him
serve with mirth, His praise forth-tell; come ye before Him and rejoice!

  II Peter 3:9 - The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count
  slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish,
  but that all should reach repentance. (ESV)

  Ezekiel 18:23 - Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares
  the Lord GOD, and not rather that he should turn from his way and live?
  (ESV)

Receiving Jesus, we have the 'right', the 'authority' to become children of
God, even by receiving Him through the knowledge of His name (onoma):

  John 1:12 - As many as however received Him He gave to them authority
  children of God to be to those believing in the name of Him (Interlinear)

|  3745       1161     2983     846       1325     846
|  hosoi      de       elabon   auton     edōken   autois
|  ὅσοι       δὲ       ἔλαβον   αὐτόν  ,  ἔδωκεν   αὐτοῖς
|  As many as however  received Him       He gave  to them
|  RelPro-NMP Conj     V-AIA-3P PPro-AM3S V-AIA-3S PPro-DM3P
| 
|  1849      5043     2316   1096        3588     4100
|  exousian  tekna    Theou  genesthai   tois     pisteuousin
|  ἐξουσίαν  τέκνα    Θεοῦ   γενέσθαι  , τοῖς     πιστεύουσιν
|   authority children of God to be       to those believing
|   N-AFS     N-ANP    N-GMS  V-ANM       Art-DMP  V-PPA-DMP
|  
|   1519 3588    3686  846
|   eis  to      onoma autou
|   εἰς  τὸ      ὄνομα αὐτοῦ  ,
|   in   the     name  of Him
|   Prep Art-ANS N-ANS PPro-GM3S

  John 6:40 - For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks
  (2334. theóreó) on the Son and believes (4100. pisteuó) in him should have
  eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. (ESV)

I consider the 'coming of the Lord' to be something which happens during
one's time on earth probably to every servant of the Lord:

  Matthew 25:11-15 - Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, Lord,
  lord, open to us. But he answered, Truly, I say to you, I do not know you.
  Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour. For it will be
  like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted to
  them his property. To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another
  one, to each according to his ability. Then he went away. (ESV)

  Matthew 24:42 - Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your
  Lord is coming. (ESV)

Just as it is inevitable that every son or daughter of God will be
disciplined:

  Hebrews 12:6 - For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises
  every son whom he receives. (ESV)

I still hold imminence with regards to rapture a possibility on the basis
that when I was born of the Spirit, things progressed very rapidly I was
quickly baptised in the Holy Spirit and I asked God in prayer that the whole
of my city would be saved. My words seemed to have a lot of impact during
this time. This is my own speculation. I was riding by the seat of my pants
after being born of the spirit.

video
youtube.com: Life or Death by Your Tongue

I guess that God has been testing me and using me similarly to as He did with
Paul the Apostle after he was taken into service by Jesus but also I had much
error and my tongue was not well-bridled. We need to be corrected by God's
Word and be doers. Talking about religious doctrine is worthless without
doing the Word in obedience to Jesus.

  James 1:23-27 - For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is
  like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. For he looks
  at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. But the one
  who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being
  no hearer who forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing.
  If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but
  deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. Religion that is
  pure and undefiled before God, the Father, is this: to visit orphans and
  widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world.
  (ESV)

Paul was an Apostle by Command. As for me, I'm just acting on faith after
confessing Jesus.

Perhaps I still speak too much.

  James 3:3 - If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us,
  we guide their whole bodies as well. (ESV)

I received lots of visions and many of them came from the enemy I believe
after I had even been reading Apocryphal gospels which I think are misleading
and I do not affirm them. Then, after I had said towards the end of 2022 on
my blog that we should get ready for Armageddon, war broke out in the middle
east soon after. I felt as though I nearly did actually get 'raptured' or it
was quickly progressing that way or something like that, and then I made a
declaration to court that Jesus is the Truth, I forgive everyone etc. That
resulted in some very rapid changes. Things in my life spiritually began to
stabilise as I have gone through police corrections and used the time to
attend Bible studies, and be corrected by the Scripture in my beliefs,
obedience and deeds. I'm still trying to be sanctified ongoingly. I am really
sorry for misleading people with regards to any error in my writings, but the
way to handle this, I believe, is not to throw the baby out with the
bath-water but to be corrected by the word of God. I'm still a work in
progress.

A friend said this at church the very day after I was born again of the
Spirit, " Just because some messages may have been wrong, don't quench the
work of God's Spirit among you by banning all prophecies, but rather make
sure you test them. Hold onto what is good and dismiss those that are not
good (i.e. those that are evil). "

  I Thessalonians 5:20-21 - Do not despise prophecies, but test everything;
  hold fast what is good. (ESV)

I feel that way about my experience of being born-again of the Spirit and
then undergoing purification and ongoing repentance and correction.

Over the course of 2022, I was actually speaking a lot of prophecy. There was
a lot of truth in it, and a lot of error, but my defense is Jesus and I was
getting to know Jesus through being washed in the word, and in obedience to
Jesus' commandments, and being corrected by the word, but we don't want to
throw the baby out with the bathwater.

  Mark 13:20 - And if the Lord had not cut short the days, no human being
  would be saved. But for the sake of the elect, whom he chose, he shortened
  the days. (ESV)

Ultimately, we are waiting for incorruptible bodies, and I totally believe in
rapture and ultimately a completely new heavens and earth (not just a
renewal, although I do believe God is still taking care of and reigning on
the earth), so I think that whatever Paul the Apostle is referring to here,
well I have my speculatinons, is something more imminent, and perhaps more to
do with God's kingdom work on the earth, but I still hold the eschatological
view that there is ultimately an entirely new heavens and earth without any
corruption:

  I Corinthians 7:29-31 - This is what I mean, brothers: the appointed time
  has grown very short. From now on, let those who have wives live as though
  they had none, and those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and
  those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing, and those who buy as
  though they had no goods, and those who deal with the world as though they
  had no dealings with it. For the present form of this world is passing
  away. (ESV)

  Acts 14:22 - strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to
  continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must
  enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

In some sense I think the rapture and judgement is imminent, and I think
probably when each son or daughter is brought into the kingdom they may have
a 'taste of it'. In other words, God is still adopting sons and daughters and
we don't know who the last one to be adopted is.

So in a sense it's been on the verge of the second coming of Christ for quite
a long time:

  Luke 21:20-24 - But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know
  that its desolation has come near. Then let those who are in Judea flee to
  the mountains, and let those who are inside the city depart, and let not
  those who are out in the country enter it, for these are days of vengeance,
  to fulfill all that is written. Alas for women who are pregnant and for
  those who are nursing infants in those days! For there will be great
  distress upon the earth and wrath against this people. They will fall by
  the edge of the sword and be led captive among all nations, and Jerusalem
  will be trampled underfoot by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles
  are fulfilled. (ESV)

The Bible also predicts scoffers - but as Peter puts it, with the Lord, one
day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day:

  II Peter 3:1-8 - This is now the second letter that I am writing to you,
  beloved. In both of them I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of
  reminder, that you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and
  the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles, knowing this
  first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing,
  following their own sinful desires. They will say, Where is the promise of
  his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are
  continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. For they
  deliberately overlook this fact, that the heavens existed long ago, and the
  earth was formed out of water and through water by the word of God, and
  that by means of these the world that then existed was deluged with water
  and perished. But by the same word the heavens and earth that now exist are
  stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of
  the ungodly. But do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord
  one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. (ESV)

Those are my current eschatological thoughts, but I am no expert.

"When Jesus became my Lord and Savior, a battle between good and evil
started." as one commenter said on this video.

After I began obeying Jesus, and especially repenting and denouncing sin and
heresy, that's when I started getting attacked spiritually, as this guy
(MarcTheMessenger) describes:

• youtube.com: God Leveled Me Up Now I'm Depressed

  Matthew 3:10 - Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every
  tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into
  the fire. (ESV)

Even regards to the rapture, ultimately we leave this world behind.
Ultimately, I think we need to go all-in for Jesus and get used to relying on
God completely, and be ready to leave this world behind. If we go all-in for
Jesus now then we will experience the kingdom of God on earth.

The present form of it will pass away and is passing away:

  I Corinthians 7:30-31 - and those who mourn as though they were not
  mourning, and those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing, and
  those who buy as though they had no goods, and those who deal with the
  world as though they had no dealings with it. For the present form of this
  world is passing away. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me. (ESV)

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:21 - For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
  (ESV)

The repentant criminal on the cross next to Jesus was sold out for the
kingdom of God and ready to leave this world behind:

  Luke 23:42-43 - And he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your
  kingdom. And he said to him, Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me
  in Paradise. (ESV)

Also, this is interesting:

youtube.com: Strive to let everything bodily die within you, and you will
rise before the general resurrection

3.15.3. As Christians, we've got to repent of evil deeds and keep Jesus' works
- keep imitating Christ, even in holiness

  John 14:12 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also
  do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I
  am going to the Father. (ESV)

  II John 1:9 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching
  of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the
  Father and the Son. (ESV)

We follow Christ's teachings:

  Revelation of John 2:15-16 - So also you have some who hold the teaching of
  the Nicolaitans. Therefore repent. If not, I will come to you soon and war
  against them with the sword of my mouth. (ESV)

We absolutely must put a stop to sexual immorality and idolatry:

  Revelation of John 2:17-24 - He who has an ear, let him hear what the
  Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will give some of
  the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, with a new name
  written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it. And
  to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: The words of the Son of God,
  who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished
  bronze. I know your works, your love and faith and service and patient
  endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first. But I have this
  against you, that you tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a
  prophetess and is teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual
  immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols. I gave her time to repent,
  but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality. Behold, I will throw
  her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw
  into great tribulation, unless they *repent of her works, and I will strike
  her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he who searches
  mind and heart, and I will give to each of you as your works deserve. But
  to the rest of you in Thyatira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not
  learned what some call the deep things of Satan*, to you I say, I do not
  lay on you any other burden. (ESV)

We must keep Jesus' teachings to the end:

  Revelation of John 2:25-29 - Only hold fast what you have until I come. The
  one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give
  authority over the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron, as
  when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received
  authority from my Father. And I will give him the morning star. He who has
  an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. (ESV)

3.15.4. We absolutely cling to Jesus as well

  I Corinthians 7:25-31 - Now concerning the betrothed, I have no command
  from the Lord, but I give my judgment as one who by the Lord's mercy is
  trustworthy. I think that in view of the present distress it is good for a
  person to remain as he is. Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be free.
  Are you free from a wife? Do not seek a wife. But if you do marry, you have
  not sinned, and if a betrothed woman marries, she has not sinned. Yet those
  who marry will have worldly troubles, and I would spare you that. This is
  what I mean, brothers: the appointed time has grown very short. From now
  on, let those who have wives live as though they had none, and those who
  mourn as though they were not mourning, and those who rejoice as though
  they were not rejoicing, and those who buy as though they had no goods, and
  those who deal with the world as though they had no dealings with it. For
  the present form of this world is passing away. (ESV)

  Luke 20:33-36 - In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will the woman
  be? For the seven had her as wife. And Jesus said to them, The sons of this
  age (G165 aion) marry (G1060 gameo) and are given in marriage (G1061
  gamisko), but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age (G165
  aion) and to the resurrection (G386 anastasis) from the dead neither marry
  nor are given in marriage, for they cannot die anymore, because they are
  equal to angels and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.

3.16. Disobedience towards God is sin. Treasuring anything else more than God is
sin

Sermon
God is very happy about obedience, and listening to His word. Disobedience is
sin, and disobedience is rejecting the word of the LORD:

  I Samuel 15:22-23 - And Samuel said, Has the LORD as great delight in burnt
  offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold, to
  obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. For
  rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and
  idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the LORD, he has also
  rejected you from being king. (ESV)

  Leviticus 5:17 - If anyone sins, doing any of the things that by the LORD's
  commandments ought not to be done, though he did not know it, then realizes
  his guilt, he shall bear his iniquity. (ESV)

The disobedience of mankind started in the Garden of Eden:

  Genesis 3:17 - And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice
  of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, You shall
  not eat of it, cursed is the ground because of you; in pain you shall eat
  of it all the days of your life; (ESV)

Jesus helps us to overcome sin. Jesus delivers us from it:

  Romans 7:22-25 - For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being, but I
  see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and
  making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Wretched man
  that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of death? Thanks be to God
  through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself serve the law of God with
  my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. (ESV)

God's commandments through Jesus is within the Law of God:

  I Corinthians 9:21 - To those outside the law I became as one outside the
  law (not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ) that I
  might win those outside the law. (ESV)

3.17. God makes us born-again, so we can love Him, obediently

  John 3:7 - Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born again. (ESV)

We must follow Jesus:

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life. (ESV)

We must believe Jesus is who He says He is:

  John 8:24 - I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you
  believe that I am he you will die in your sins. (ESV)

We must love Jesus:

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

In my understanding, I consider all who are repentantly trusting in the Lord
Jesus Christ, who is God the Son, for their salvation, if they are willing
turn to and obey Him, if Father God puts them in, obediently trusting Jesus
Christ who is their life, to be in Christ Jesus, no matter what else I say in
this document.

I have been just trying to figure out my theology. One God, three persons,
Father, Son and Holy Spirit. I don't have the say though. God puts a person
in. AMEN!!

  I Corinthians 1:30 - But by His doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became
  to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and
  redemption, (NASB)

We are given the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit cleanses our hearts by faith.
As we obey Jesus, going against the resistance, our hearts are being
cleansed:

  Acts 15:8-9 - And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, by giving
  them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us, and he made no distinction
  between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.

If we have faith in Jesus then we obey Jesus' commandments when presented
with opportunities. We walk by faith, not sight. When other people discourage
you from following Jesus' commandments, but you choose to obey Jesus anyway,
this is overcoming the enemy by faith:

  II Corinthians 5:7 - for we walk by faith, not by sight. (ESV)

With God's help, we must drop the old selfish self and allow Jesus to come in
with the new obediently loving self:

  Psalms 37:27 - Turn away from evil and do good; so shall you dwell forever.
  (ESV)

Selfish people killed Jesus. Jesus was selfless. Christian selfless love is
based upon God having loved us first; i.e. Christ's love has more nuance to
it than mere charity.

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

Jesus was obedient to God unto death. We identify with Christ with a death
like His (dying to sin and living to serve God), to be united with Him in a
resurrection like His! This is why obedience to Jesus is so important. How
can a person be resurrected if they don't die? We need to die a death to be
resurrected:

  II Timothy 2:11 - The saying is trustworthy, for: If we have died with him,
  we will also live with him; (ESV)

Dying to sin an immediate thing and living to Christ, becoming like Jesus in
His death is a lifelong (while on this earth) process. Also, starting to live
for God is an immediate thing, and to be with God is the long-term thing:

  Romans 6:8-10 - Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will
  also live with him. We know that Christ being raised from the dead will
  never die again; death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he
  died he died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God.
  (ESV)

I think baptism of water is an appeal to God and identifying oneself into
Christ's death and resurrection but the sacrament maybe is not strictly
required to be saved (as far as I understand).

  Romans 6:3 - Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into
  Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? (ESV)

  Romans 6:1 - What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace
  may abound? By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do
  you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were
  baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into
  death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory
  of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been
  united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him
  in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with
  him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we
  would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free
  from sin. Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also
  live with him. We know that Christ being raised from the dead will never
  die again; death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died he
  died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God. So you
  also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.

As I understand it, in water baptism we make an appeal to partake in the
resurrection of Christ, and live to serve Christ. Also in being born of the
Spirit / regeneration, we definitely die to sin and live to serve Christ,
being able to see the Kingdom of God. But then we spend the rest of our lives
on earth becoming like Jesus in His death - being obedient to death here on
earth, to become like Him in His resurrection:

  Philippians 3:8-11 - Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the
  surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have
  suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I
  may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
  that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the
  righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and the
  power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him
  in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from
  the dead. (ESV)

I think that water baptism in part is an appeal to partake in the baptism of
the Holy Spirit:

  I Corinthians 12:13 - For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one
  body—Jews or Greeks, slaves or free—and all were made to drink of one
  Spirit. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:1-4 - I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were
  all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized
  into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual
  food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the
  spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. (ESV)

Nevertheless the one who trusts in Jesus and dies will yet live. AMEN!! And
the following verse, I believe actually applies to baptism (identifying with
Christ in His death and resurrection)! So a nice way of reading the following
is: If someone, while believing in Jesus Christ, dies to their old selfish
nature to live as someone who loves selflessly, they will live, and the one
who lives abiding in Jesus Christ's love, having died to their old selfish
nature, and believes in Him will never die:

  John 11:25-26 - Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life.
  Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who
  lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?

I like that way of thinking of it because it encapsulates both belief and
obedience to Jesus - both which I think are important.

Jesus' selfless love also faithful to God. Without breaking faith with God,
Jesus loved back his persecutors:

  Hebrews 5:8-9 - Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he
  suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation
  to all who obey him, (ESV)

No-one took Jesus' life, but Jesus laid it down of His own accord.
Nevertheless, he was killed by sinners. To put it another way, while needing
to fulfill the law and the prophets, he did not sin, and sinners killed Him
and cast lots with His clothes, but actually you could say that Jesus gave
His life, and let them have His clothes:

  John 10:18 - No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I
  have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again.
  This charge I have received from my Father. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:40 - And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him
  have your cloak as well. (ESV)

  I Peter 2:22 - He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 27:35 - And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments
  among them by casting lots. (ESV)

  I Peter 3:17-18 - For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should
  be God's will, than for doing evil. For Christ also suffered once for sins,
  the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put
  to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit, (ESV)

And Jesus prayed for his persecutors:

  Luke 23:34 - And Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what
  they do. And they cast lots to divide his garments. (ESV)

Likewise, that's the type of selfless love we should have. Selfless love
while trying to maintain faithfulness to God:

  I Peter 2:20 - For what credit is it if, when you sin and are beaten for
  it, you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure, this
  is a gracious thing in the sight of God. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:19 - Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will
  entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. (ESV)

The purest selfless love loves while not breaking faith with God. Jesus
maintained faithfulness to God while maintaining selfless love. We should
endeavour to have the same mind:

  Philippians 2:5-8 - Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in
  Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality
  with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form
  of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human
  form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even
  death on a cross. (ESV)

The Apostle Paul strove to maintain a clear conscience with God:

  Acts 24:14-16 - But this I confess to you, that according to the Way, which
  they call a sect, I worship the God of our fathers, believing everything
  laid down by the Law and written in the Prophets, having a hope in God,
  which these men themselves accept, that there will be a resurrection of
  both the just and the unjust. So I always take pains to have a clear
  conscience toward both God and man. (ESV)

Yes, it's very important for Christians to practice righteousness:

  I John 3:7 - Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. (ESV)

We are commanded to be innocent, and to bear witness of Jesus before men who
persecute us:

  Matthew 10:16-18 - Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of
  wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves. Beware of men, for
  they will deliver you over to courts and flog you in their synagogues, and
  you will be dragged before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness
  before them and the Gentiles. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:15-16 - that you may be blameless and innocent, children of
  God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among
  whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so
  that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or
  labor in vain. (ESV)

  I conjecture that, effectively, Obedience = Believing the gospel, and
  Selfless love (no longer serving yourself but serving Christ. It's obeying
  Jesus.).

  Nevertheless, where we fall short of obedience, Jesus has us covered. But
  if we are keeping Jesus' commandments then we're abiding in His love.

  Is it crucial to obey the gospel? Yes. Is that a 'works-based' gospel? If
  we must put a label on it, I'd describe it more of a
  my-willingness-to-work-serving-Christ-based-on-Jesus'-finished-works-and-God-working-in-me-based
  gospel.

When we walk in trusting, believing, obedient faith, God works in us and to
deliver us and makes our paths straight for us:

  Philippians 1:6 - And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in
  you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

  Jude 1:21 - keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of
  our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. (ESV)

Although, we will arrive at rest:

  Heb 4:1-6 - Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands,
  let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. For
  good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did not
  benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who
  listened. For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, As I
  swore in my wrath, They shall not enter my rest, although his works were
  finished from the foundation of the world. For he has somewhere spoken of
  the seventh day in this way: And God rested on the seventh day from all his
  works. And again in this passage he said, They shall not enter my rest.
  Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly
  received the good news failed to enter because of disobedience,

  Heb 4:9-11 - So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God,
  for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God
  did from his. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one
  may fall by the same sort of disobedience.

We work then find rest:

  Revelation of John 14:13 - And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write
  this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed,
  says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds
  follow them! (ESV)

That rest looks like living for the will of God:

  I Peter 4:1-2 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the
  flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the
  flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. (ESV)

  I John 5:3 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

  Psalms 46:10 - “Cease striving and know that I am God; I will be exalted
  among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth.” (NASB)

So it's still extremely important for us to try to keep His commandments, and
His commandments are to love God and one another as He loved us, selflessly.

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

And I wont stop following Jesus Christ until I know Him as personally as
possible - I want His thoughts running through my mind like Father God's
thoughts ran through His. Anything less than that and I am unsatisfied.

  I Corinthians 2:11-16 - For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit
  of that person, which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of
  God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the spirit of the
  world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things
  freely given us by God. And we impart this in words not taught by human
  wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who
  are spiritual. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit
  of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them
  because they are spiritually discerned. The spiritual person judges all
  things, but is himself to be judged by no one. For who has understood the
  mind of the Lord so as to instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.
  (ESV)

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

Jesus knows us and we know Jesus:

  John 10:14 - I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me,
  (ESV)

We must be keeping Jesus' commandments for us to be sure that we have come to
know Him:

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him,

Jesus commands us to take His yoke (obey Him) and learn from Him (believe
Him):

  Matthew 11:29 - Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle
  and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. (ESV)

So receive the words of Jesus and the Apostles to know the thoughts of God
inside your own mind:

  I Corinthians 2:11-14 - For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit
  of that person, which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of
  God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the spirit of the
  world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things
  freely given us by God. And we impart this in words not taught by human
  wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who
  are spiritual. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit
  of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them
  because they are spiritually discerned. (ESV)

We need to perform our salvation in obedience to God:

  Philippians 2:12 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out
  (G2716 katergazomai) your own salvation with fear and trembling, (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Work Out What Christ Has Won: The Christian Life as Gift and
Duty

Sermon
youtube.com: Be Who You Are: Living Out Identity in Christ, Part 1

Jesus first made Paul His own, now Paul wants to press on to
perfection/completion:

  Philippians 3:11-12 - that by any means possible I may attain the
  resurrection from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am
  already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has
  made me his own. (ESV)

When it comes to be being saved to serve Christ, we can't boast that in some
way we earned salvation outside of God's gift/grace:

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

  Romans 11:32 - For God has consigned all to disobedience (543. apeitheia -
  willful unbelief, obstinancy, disobedience), that he may have mercy on all.
  (ESV)

Let's see what the word katergazomai (the word for 'work out') means:

• Philippians 2:12 (Interlinear)

|  5620      27       1473     2531     3842     5219            3361     5613     1722     3588     3952     1473
|  Hōste     agapētoi mou      kathōs   pantote  hypēkousate     mē       hōs      en       tē       parousia mou
|  Ὥστε  ,   ἀγαπητοί μου  ,   καθὼς    πάντοτε  ὑπηκούσατε  ,   μὴ       ὡς       ἐν       τῇ       παρουσίᾳ μου
|  Therefore beloved  of me    just as  always   you have obeyed not      as       in       the      presence of me
|  Conj      Adj-VMP  PPro-G1S Adv      Adv      V-AIA-2P        Adv      Adv      Prep     Art-DFS  N-DFS    PPro-G1S

|  3440     235     3568     4183     3123     1722     3588     666     1473     3326     5401     2532
|  monon    alla    nyn      pollō    mallon   en       tē       apousia mou      meta     phobou   kai
|  μόνον  , ἀλλὰ    νῦν      πολλῷ    μᾶλλον   ἐν       τῇ       ἀπουσίᾳ μου  ,   μετὰ     φόβου    καὶ
|  only     but     now      much     more     in       the      absence of me    with     fear     and
|  Adv      Conj    Adv      Adj-DNS  Adv      Prep     Art-DFS  N-DFS   PPro-G1S Prep     N-GMS    Conj

'Work out' (G2716 katergazomai) means here to perform your salvation by work
(which has yet still been gifted to us, and the salvation which we are
performing is not the result of works) - so I think it's more like
'walk''perform''obey' similarly to the Israelites through the Red Sea, but
with respect to obeying the gospel, rather than 'work' in any way that is not
in obedience to the gospel:

|  5156      3588     1438        4991      2716
|  tromou    tēn      heautōn     sōtērian  katergazesthe
|  τρόμου    τὴν      ἑαυτῶν      σωτηρίαν  κατεργάζεσθε  .
|  trembling  -       your own    salvation work out
|  N-GMS     Art-AFS  RefPro-GM3P N-AFS     V-PMM/P-2P

|  :  2716  katergazomai  kat-er-gad'-zom-ahee
| 
|   from 2596 and 2038; to work fully, i.e. accomplish; by implication, to
|   finish, fashion:--cause, to (deed), perform, work (out).
|   see GREEK for 2596
|   see GREEK for 2038

gospel-of-grace-faq.josephprince.org: Is Philippians 2:12 telling us we need
to work for our salvation? - Questions About the Gospel of Grace

If you have trusting faith in God then you will walk according to the will of
God (walk the way Jesus Christ calls us to walk in obedience to Jesus, as a
response of love to God in the knowledge He loved us first). Led by the
Spirit = following Jesus.

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
  (ESV)

That's not working but it is walking and it is being obedient to Jesus. The
Israelites through the Red Sea were being led by the Spirit - they were not
working for God as they walked in obedience:

  Galatians 5:16-18 - But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify
  the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the
  Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are
  opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.
  But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.

So I think trusting Jesus, obeying Jesus and believing Jesus' words, and
believing in Him should be true simultaneously, because people misconstrue
Jesus' words to their own destruction. Do we have to obey Christ? Yes we do.
We must abide by His teaching:

  Matthew 7:13-16 - Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the
  way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.
  For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie. narrow, small) and the way is hard
  (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when circumstances "rub us the wrong way" that
  make us feel confined (hemmed in); restricted to a "narrow" place) that
  leads to life, and those who find it are few. Beware of false prophets, who
  come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will
  recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or
  figs from thistles?

We are saved from doing evil deeds, and brought into the will of God. Our
faith is tested. That sounds like the straight and narrow to me:

  I Peter 4:12-19 - Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it
  comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to
  you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may
  also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted
  for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of
  God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or
  an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him
  not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for
  judgment to begin at the household of God; and if it begins with us, what
  will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And If the
  righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the
  sinner? Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will entrust
  their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. (ESV)

3.17.1. The Christian life is both gift and duty

Fighting sin is both a gift from God and a duty we act.

We have been given stewardship to exercise love that issues from a pure
heart, good conscience and sincere faith, as Paul was given stewardship:

  I Timothy 1:4-5 - nor to devote themselves to myths and endless
  genealogies, which promote speculations rather than the stewardship (3622.
  oikonomia) from God that is by faith. The aim of our charge is love that
  issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

  Ephesians 3:2 - assuming that you have heard of the stewardship (3622.
  oikonomia) of God's grace that was given to me for you, (ESV)

3622. oikonomia
Usage: management of household affairs, stewardship, administration.

Increasing holiness is both a gift and a duty.

It is a gift of grace that we receive from Jesus and the way that we receive
a gift that involves your thoughts, desires and behaviour is by having the
thoughts, the desires and actions. It is a gift you live out, work out. It's
a '[working] out_' of the salvation that is free-grace.

 1. Jesus' obedience

  Philippians 2:7-9 - but made himself nothing, taking the form of a
  servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human
  form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death,
  even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and
  bestowed on him the name that is above every name, (ESV)

 2. Our following His example

How to grow in Christlikeness.

  Philippians 2:12-18 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed,
  so now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work
  out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works
  in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Do all things
  without grumbling or questioning, that you may be blameless and
  innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and
  twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world,
  holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be
  proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. Even if I am to be
  poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your
  faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all. Likewise you also should be
  glad and rejoice with me. (ESV)

We follow the one who obeyed and was rewarded.

We work out the salvation He worked for.

  Philippians 2:12 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out
  your own salvation with fear and trembling, (ESV)

• We self-humblingly obey in joy for the reward.
• We self-humblingly obey to please our Father.

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

God's people no longer offer slaughtered animals, but we offer ourselves,
all we are, our lives in obedience to Him. We are to practice personal
holiness, putting a stop to sin, and living to serve God, and love one
another:

  Romans 12:1 - I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of
  God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable
  to God, which is your spiritual worship. (ESV)

Do nothing from selfish-ambition or conceit:

  Philippians 2:3 - Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility
  count others more significant than yourselves. (ESV)

Do all things without grumbling or disputing:

  Philippians 2:14 - Do all things without grumbling or questioning,
  (ESV)

It seems like we're saved (delivered) from (among other things):

• selfish ambition
• conceit
• grumbling
• [petty] disputing
• sin that leads to death

  Titus 3:1-7 - Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities,
  to be obedient, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no
  one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show perfect courtesy
  toward all people. For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led
  astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in
  malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But when the
  goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us,
  not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his
  own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy
  Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our
  Savior, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs
  according to the hope of eternal life. (ESV)

3.17.2. God working in us

God loved us first. We must accept that:

  I John 4:10-11 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he
  loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if
  God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. (ESV)

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:21 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin,
  so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:32 - Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one
  another, as God in Christ forgave you. (ESV)

When we are believing in Jesus Christ's finished work and obeying Jesus,
obeying His commandments, it is actually God who is working in us,
transforming us, sanctifying us, restoring us:

  Philippians 2:13 - for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work
  for his good pleasure. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Yet Not I, But Through Christ In Me - Selah ~ 1 Hour Lyric Video

We serve Christ:

  Matthew 25:40 - And the King will answer them, Truly, I say to you, as you
  did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me. (ESV)

  Mark 9:37 - Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, and
  whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent me. (ESV)

If a person serves Christ, this is not a dead works-based gospel, but is
simply obeying the gospel. That person has been brought into obedience by the
grace of God.

  II Peter 3:14-18 - Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these, be
  diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish, and at peace. And
  count the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother
  Paul also wrote to you according to the wisdom given him, as he does in all
  his letters when he speaks in them of these matters. There are some things
  in them that are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist
  to their own destruction, as they do the other Scriptures. You therefore,
  beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care that you are not carried away
  with the error of lawless people and lose your own stability. But grow in
  the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the
  glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen.

We are supposed to then proclaim the excellencies of Him who has called us
out of darkness into His marvelous light:

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation,
  a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of
  him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. (ESV)

  God is amazing. Because He made me born-again so I could come into a
  relationship with Him where I can truthfully say that I was stuck in my sin
  and God broke that sin off me through making me born-again, and has given
  me a new Spirit so I can walk in obedience to Him.

It's only possible through what Jesus Christ has achieved for us on the
cross, because the blood of Jesus Christ redeems us as we abide in Him:

  Ephesians 1:7 - In him we have redemption through his blood, the
  forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, (ESV)

Song
Chris Tomlin - Holy Forever {Lyric Video} - YouTube

  Hebrews 12:28-29 - Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom
  that cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to God acceptable worship,
  with reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. (ESV)

Even having faith in God through faith in Jesus is obedience according to
Romans 16:26. If a person is trusting in Him when they die, they will live.

  Romans 16:26 - but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic
  writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of
  the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith — (ESV)

Also, faith in Jesus is obedience to Jesus, because we are instructed to hold
the faith without partiality - that's faithfulness to God regarding seeking
to do His will which includes obedience to His commandments:

  James 2:1 - My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our
  Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. (ESV)

The Apostle Paul says something similar. Faith is a matter of being
accountable to God, even with respect to law-keeping:

  Romans 14:22 - The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God.
  Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what
  he approves. (ESV)

Through faith to Jesus we are justified - that's believing obedience,
accountable to God - so it's quite important to bear one another's burdens
because Jesus, our Master, commanded us to do it. We keep accountable to God
with what we believe/do in obedience to Him:

  Galatians 2:16 - yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the
  law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ
  Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the
  law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. (ESV)

We must go to Jesus to receive eternal life.

Our obedience is penitent, but our our justification doesn't hang on our
perfection. Our obedience should also be without partiality.

  Hebrews 5:9 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him,

Also I conclude that obeying Jesus Christ is having faith in Him.

3.17.3. God acts for those who wait for Him

God wants to be our strength. AMEN!!

What we should do now is acknowledge the LORD, keep our eyes on Jesus, and
live godly lives (godliness is behaviour in accordance with the knowledge of
God, believe the truth and walk in that truth, love the light, walk in the
light, walk in the truth). Trust in the LORD to save us as we walk in the
light (in obedience):

  Proverbs 3:5-6 - Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not lean on
  your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make
  straight your paths. (ESV)

God acts for those who wait for Him:

  Isaiah 64:4 - From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye
  has seen a God besides you, who acts for those who wait for him. (ESV)

Also, waiting on the LORD our strength is renewed:

  Isaiah 40:31 - but they who wait for the LORD shall renew their strength;
  they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be
  weary; they shall walk and not faint. (ESV)

We receive an anointing from God. God teaches us and we learn from it and
abide in Him:

  I John 2:27 - But the anointing that you received from him abides in you,
  and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing
  teaches you about everything—and is true and is no lie, just as it has
  taught you—abide in him. (ESV)

God leads us into the truth:

  John 16:13 - When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the
  truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he
  will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. (ESV)

  John 17:17 - Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth. (ESV)

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (ESV)

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
  No one comes to the Father except through me. (ESV)

We walk the way in which Jesus walked to abide in Jesus' love:

  I John 2:6 - whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in
  which he walked. (ESV)

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

  I John 4:12 - No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides
  in us and his love is perfected in us. (ESV)

  I John 4:16 - So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has
  for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God
  abides in him. (ESV)

  I John 4:15 - Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in
  him, and he in God. (ESV)

  I John 3:14 - We know that we have passed out of death into life, because
  we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death. (ESV)

  I John 3:17 - But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in
  need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him?
  (ESV)

As we walk in the Spirit of Jesus, we are strengthened to walk as Jesus
walked. We are ourselves empowered to walk as Jesus walked thanks to Jesus'
own endurance, and that is unlocked by having believing, obedient, trusting,
following faith in Jesus where we are being led by His Spirit, and are
walking by His Spirit:

  Hebrews 12:1-3 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. (ESV)

  Philippians 4:13 - I can do all things through him who strengthens me.
  (ESV)

God provides the strength by which we do service to Him so that Jesus may be
glorified and God may be glorified through Jesus:

  I Peter 4:11 - Whoever speaks, is to do so as one who is speaking the
  utterances of God; whoever serves is to do so as one who is serving by the
  strength which God supplies; so that in all things God may be glorified
  through Jesus Christ, to whom belongs the glory and dominion forever and
  ever. Amen. (NASB)

God literally helps us if we ask Him for help:

  Psalms 46:1-3 - God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in
  trouble. To the choirmaster. Of the Sons of Korah. According to Alamoth. A
  Song. Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way, though the
  mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and
  foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling. Selah (ESV)

See how we obey Him and he helps us:

  I John 3:21-23 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment,
  that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another,
  just as he has commanded us. (ESV)

As obedient children of God we ask God in prayer and if it's according to His
will He hears us and he grants us our requests:

  I Peter 1:14 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of
  your former ignorance, (ESV)

  I John 5:14-15 - And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that
  if we ask anything according to his will he hears us. And if we know that
  he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we
  have asked of him. (ESV)

But we must forgive:

  Mark 11:24-25 - Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe
  that you have received it, and it will be yours. And whenever you stand
  praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father
  also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. (ESV)

Polycarp 6:2
If then we entreat the Lord that He would forgive us, we also ought to
forgive: for we are before the eyes of our Lord and God, and we must all
stand at the judgment-seat of Christ, and each man must give an account of
himself.

If God is for us, who can be against us?

  Romans 8:31 - What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who
  can be against us? (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Everlasting God

  Psalms 68:5 - Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in
  his holy habitation. (ESV)

  Psalms 82:3-4 - Give justice to the weak and the fatherless; maintain the
  right of the afflicted and the destitute. Rescue the weak and the needy;
  deliver them from the hand of the wicked. (ESV)

3.17.4. The free gift is God - God is the Gospel

We get out of the way everything that is an obstacle to enjoying God when we
are forgiven. AMEN:

  Ephesians 1:7 - In him we have redemption through his blood, the
  forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, (ESV)

  Colossians 1:14 - in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.
  (ESV)

3.17.5. God the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus - the righteousness
of God apart from the law is received by faith

  Romans 3:21-26 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

3.17.6. The point of justification - we rejoice in the hope of the glory of
God, and we are transformed

Sermon
John Piper: God is the Gospel - YouTube @time: 40 min 42 sec

  Romans 5:1-2 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also
  obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice
  in hope of the glory of God. (ESV)

We rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. That's the point of
justification. Who cares if we are righteous. We don't want to be God - we
want to see the glory of God.

The reason we want to be righteous is so we get God. We don't get put in
hell.

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

Not only are we able to behold the glory of God, but we are transformed!

  II Corinthians 3:18 - And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory
  of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of
  glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. (ESV)

3.17.7. Why do we want to live righteously? To honour Christ

We want to honour/exalt/magnify Christ in our lives, to trust Him, honour
Him, believe His promises, and even faithfully wait/hold to those promises,
and even want others to see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ
who is the image of God:

  Philippians 1:20-21 - According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that
  in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so
  now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by
  death. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. (KJV)

  II Corinthians 4:4 - In their case the god of this world has blinded the
  minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel
  of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. (ESV)

We want to obey God, and we will be transformed in this life:

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

And have communion with God:

  Revelation of John 3:4 - Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people
  who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white,
  for they are worthy. (ESV)

3.18. Saved not by my own works done outside of Him but by His work

Yes, I believe that Jesus Christ has paid the price in full for me to be
saved, and that is surely what I am leaning on. The price has been paid in
full for me to be saved.

We are slaves to Christ and no other. We're not slaves to sin, we're not
slaves to law, we're not slaves to men:

  I Corinthians 6:19-20 - Or do you not know that your body is a temple of
  the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own,
  for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 7:23 - You were bought with a price; do not become slaves of
  men. (ESV)

  II Peter 2:1 - But false prophets also arose among the people, just as
  there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in
  destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing
  upon themselves swift destruction. (ESV)

Yes, I am having faith in Jesus Christ of Nazareth as the Messiah, who paid
the price for my sin. It's continuing to live by faith in Jesus:

  Galatians 2:20 - I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who
  live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I
  live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
  (ESV)

As we hold faith in Jesus, we continue to work for the Lord. Price paid in
full doesn't mean going back to being a slave to sin. Price paid in full
means Jesus bought us and we're slaves/bondservants to Jesus now:

  Colossians 3:23-25 - Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and
  not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as
  your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. For the wrongdoer will be
  paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality. (ESV)

Not by my works done outside of Him am I saved. He bought me. He will save me
from the wrath of God. I continue to have faith in Him and serve and obey
Him:

  Romans 5:9 - Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood,
  much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. (ESV)

By grace I am saved, through faith. The works that I do were prepared for me
in advance that I should walk in them.

  Ephesians 2:8-10 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus
  for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
  (ESV)

Through faith in Jesus Christ, Jesus dwells in our hearts. We are able to
better comprehend the love of Christ when we are rooted and grounded in love:

  Ephesians 3:14-21 - For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from
  whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that according to the
  riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through
  his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts
  through faith—that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have
  strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length
  and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses
  knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now to him
  who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think,
  according to the power at work within us, to him be glory in the church and
  in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. (ESV)

3.18.1. Under the right conditions, I don't see a problem with 'working' for
God

The motivation has to be right. We do work for God to honour God, and as a
response to Him loving us first, and as a response of love for Him forgiving
us first, and giving us the gift of eternal life.

We are instructed to work for God:

  II John 1:8 - Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have
  worked for, but may win a full reward. (ESV)

In believing in Jesus, we are guaranteed an inheritance in heaven:

  Ephesians 1:13,14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

The inheritance is in heaven:

  I Peter 1:4 - to obtain an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled
  and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you, (ESV)

We work for the Lord while believing in Jesus:

  Colossians 3:23-25 - Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and
  not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as
  your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. For the wrongdoer will be
  paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality. (ESV)

So once again, we are actually instructed to work for God, but it's not wrong
under the right conditions:

  Hebrews 6:10 - For God is not so unjust as to overlook your work and the
  love that you showed for his sake in serving the saints, as you still do.
  (ESV)

All the Apostle Paul is saying here, I think is that in "working for God"
doesn't imply you have accepted a gift. But, yes, you can accept the gift
(believe in Jesus) and under that condition work for God:

  Romans 4:4 - Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift
  but as his due. (ESV)

We still really do need to accept the free gift! Actually, it's imperative,
no matter how much we've been attempting to work for God, that we accept the
free gift from God:

  Romans 4:5-8 - And to the one who does not work but trusts him who
  justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, just as David
  also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness
  apart from works: Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not
  count his sin. (ESV)

Yes, we must turn from our wicked ways to obey God - absolutely!:

  Romans 6:16-18 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone
  as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But
  thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient
  from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,
  and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.
  (ESV)

The free gift is eternal life in Christ Jesus, our Lord:

  Romans 6:20-23 - When you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to
  righteousness. But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things
  of which you are now ashamed? The end of those things is death. But now
  that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the
  fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the
  wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ
  Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

After believing in Jesus, we must turn from our wicked ways and serve God:

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

Jesus is the definitive Son of God. But we may be adopted as sons through
faith in Jesus:

  John 1:14 - And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen
  his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and
  truth. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:26-29 - for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through
  faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
  There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is
  neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you
  are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise.
  (ESV)

Jesus has literally taught people that that if we love our enemies, do good
and lend, expecting nothing in return we will be rewarded and be sons of the
Most High. This shows that obedience to Jesus is just part of having faith in
Jesus:

  Luke 6:35-36 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting
  nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of
  the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful,
  even as your Father is merciful. (ESV)

The prophets, saints, and servants of Jesus will be rewarded:

  Revelation of John 11:18 - The nations raged, but your wrath came, and the
  time for the dead to be judged, and for rewarding your servants, the
  prophets and saints, and those who fear your name, both small and great,
  and for destroying the destroyers of the earth. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 5:12-14 - We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor
  among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you, and to esteem them
  very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
  And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the fainthearted,
  help the weak, be patient with them all. (ESV)

I just want to be clear that good works we do in obedience to Jesus are still
considered a gift to us. We work out what God has worked for. It's even a
gift to be in position of being able to do good works in service to Jesus
after He has washed us:

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

    • Eph 2:8 - For by grace you have been saved through faith (G4102
      pistis); and that not of yourselves, it is the gift (G1435 doron) of
      God; (NASB)
    • Eph 2:9 - not as a result of works (G2041 ergon), so that no one may
      boast. (NASB)
    • Eph 2:10 - For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good
      works (G2041 ergon), which God prepared beforehand so that we would
      walk in them. (NASB)

|  :  1435  doron  do'-ron
| 
|   a present; specially, a sacrifice:--gift, offering.

|  :  2041  ergon  er'-gon
| 
|   from a primary (but obsolete) ergo (to work); toil (as an effort or
|   occupation); by implication, an act:--deed, doing, labour, work.

Work being done by God in us to sanctify us and bring us fruit for
everlasting life is work done in faith:

  Romans 6:22 - But now that you have been set free from sin and have become
  slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end,
  eternal life. (ESV)

  Matthew 3:8 - Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. (ESV)

We must be abiding in Jesus to produce fruit, and that means we must have
faith in Jesus:

  John 15:4 - Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by
  itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in
  me. (ESV)

OK, so we should confess that Jesus is the Son of God and continue obeying
Him in faith:

  I John 4:15 - Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in
  him, and he in God. (ESV)

So the problem isn't work (even work relating to salvation) but the problem
is work that is not done in faith (i.e. dead work).

  Hebrews 6:1 - Therefore let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and
  go on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead
  works and of faith toward God, (ESV)

The faith Paul talks about is faith towards God. The faith towards God
believes God and believes Jesus:

  Romans 14:23 - But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the
  eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.
  (ESV)

  I believe that anyone who trusts (is trusting) in the Lord Jesus Christ for
  their salvation, even they have no works, but only a trusting heart,
  believing what Jesus said, and putting their hope in Jesus for their
  salvation, repentant and willing to obey (obedient), theoretically are to
  be in Christ if God does it. I consider that obedience to Jesus and turning
  away from sin is essential to be found in Him. If someone dies while
  trusting in Him they will live. If someone trusts in Him while they live
  they will never die.

Song
Hillsong+Delirious? - History Maker

3.19. Eternal security for those who follow Jesus

Sermon
Eternal Security - Charles Spurgeon Sermon - YouTube @time: 25 min 13 sec

  At the stage they trust in Jesus, they may have no work but I believe at
  that stage they are justified, when in their heart is obedient, trusting,
  believing faith in Christ who is their life. But I'm not the one to justify
  them, God is. And I assume that Jesus knows who those people are - He knows
  that they are His sheep, and that Father God draws those people to Him. And
  when they go through Jesus Christ, the door, they are saved.

  I believe that if a person trusts and believe on God in their heart,
  believing that they need saving and that Jesus Christ is their Lord and
  that Jesus Christ died for their transgressions and was raised for their
  justification - that they have a hearing heart and a heart that follows Him
  - that they will be saved.

I simply see no enmity between trusting God for justification through the
finished work of the cross by Jesus Christ and trusting God by obeying Jesus
Christ. I believe that is a false dichotomy. While faith alone saves, I
believe that both belief and obedience (willingness to do the will of God)
are intrinsic qualities of faith. God justifies the one who places their
faith in Jesus. Having faith in Jesus looks like believing Him and obeying
Him. Faith in Jesus looks like trusting Jesus. Therefore, I just focus on
trusting Jesus in belief and obedience, and assume God is taking care of the
justification issue.

Christian love:

Talk
Believing Loving and Obeying and abiding in the presence of the Holy Spirit -
YouTube

We want Jesus, so we should treasure Jesus:

  Psalms 37:4 - Delight yourself in the LORD, and he will give you the
  desires of your heart. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:21 - For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
  (ESV)

Jesus must be our number 1 heart's desire:

  Matthew 10:37 - Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy
  of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
  (ESV)

God wants Him to be our treasure. We must obey Jesus and Jehovah Jireh will
provide:

  Job 22:24-26 - if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the
  stones of the torrent bed, then the Almighty will be your gold and your
  precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and
  lift up your face to God. (ESV)

We must love Jesus by keeping His commandments:

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

If we treasure Jesus, and make Jesus our number 1 heart's desire, we will be
able to keep Jesus' commandments:

  John 14:15 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. (ESV)

We must give ourselves first to the Lord Jesus:

  II Corinthians 8:3-5 - For they gave according to their means, as I can
  testify, and beyond their means, of their own free will, begging us
  earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints— and
  this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and
  then by the will of God to us. (ESV)

And following Jesus' commandments we will love one another:

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all
  people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

3.20. Some indicators to know for sure you are saved

Talk
This is how you can know for SURE that you are saved | Assurance of Salvation
| Kaci Nicole - YouTube @time: 12 min 59 sec

For assurance of salvation, here's some indicators:

• Trust in Jesus. Pursuaded by Jesus Christ
• Believe that He is the Messiah and Son of God
• Humility. Broken over their sin, and grateful by what Jesus has done.
• A change of heart like the example of the repentant thief (Read:
Matt 27:43-44 and Luke 23:39-43).
• the repentant thief had come to a place of humility and fear of
God
• he had an awareness of his own sin and the reality of judgement
• he knew that it was only by Jesus, not by his own works that he
could be saved
• he affirmed the Lordship and deity of Christ
• A hatred of one's own sin
• Accepted forgiveness from God
• Treasuring and valuing Jesus and His words
• Obedience to Jesus
• Passing forward forgiveness and mercy to others
• That you have kept the faith despite trials and testing
• What I mean by this is that confidence grows as you go through
trials
• Receiving the Spirit of God

1. A change of heart towards humility, fear of God, belief and trust in Jesus
to be saved, an awareness of one's own sin and the reality of judgement, and
acknowledging Jesus' Lordship and deity:

All the thief could do was look to Jesus and cry out for mercy but thankfully
that is all he needed.

  My thoughts: I still think that the thief obeyed the gospel by submitting
  to the righteousness of God. He had obeyed the gospel, even preached the
  gospel from his cross, and was no longer an enemy of the cross of Christ. I
  think if given the opportunity he would have continued on in obedience to
  Jesus and even in good works of service to Jesus because of his repentant
  heart. He acknowledged Jesus was righteous and did not deserve the
  punishment that they deserved, he asked Jesus to remember him in His
  kingdom, and had the fear of God in his heart which would have caused him
  to not turn from God.

This was all that was required of him for salvation and the same is true for
us.

  The thief didn't get to go learn the bible, or get baptised or begin to
  follow Jesus in the way that he lived, but that is not to say that those
  things are not important because they are. Those are things that God has
  commanded us to do, and if we love God then we should want to be obedient
  in doing those things. The distiction is that those things don't earn our
  salvation but they are the fruit of a heart that has truly put faith in
  Jesus. I think that the thief would have gone on to do those things, he
  just never had a chance. But you might be thinking: I don't always obey
  Jesus. I still wrestle with sin and the answer is that you won't perfectly
  obey Jesus. You will still have sin in your life because Jesus will be
  continuing to work that out in you until the day that you die. But if you
  desire to know the God of the Bible and to love God and to obey God's word,
  that in itself is evidence that God is at work in your heart because we
  cannot do those things on our own. Even if we aren't yet fully where we
  know we ought to be with those things, the fact that they're there is an
  indication and that we are continuing to grow in grace.

Both robbers start off mocking Jesus but then one of the robbers has a change
of heart:

  Matthew 27:43-44 - He trusts in God; let God deliver him now, if he desires
  him. For he said, I am the Son of God. And the robbers who were crucified
  with him also reviled him in the same way. (ESV)

  Mark 15:32 - Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the
  cross that we may see and believe. Those who were crucified with him also
  reviled him. (ESV)

  Luke 23:39-43 - One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying,
  Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us! But the other rebuked him,
  saying, Do you not fear God, since you are under the same sentence of
  condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of
  our deeds; but this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, Jesus,
  remember me when you come into your kingdom. And he said to him, Truly, I
  say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise. (ESV)

The fear of God should mean we want to do what pleases God - it's a heart
that wishes to have a good conscience with God - wishes for God's
commendation and not His wrath:

  Proverbs 16:6 - By steadfast love and faithfulness iniquity is atoned for,
  and by the fear of the LORD one turns away from evil. (ESV)

We want to always have the fear of God:

  Proverbs 14:27 - The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, that one may
  turn away from the snares of death. (ESV)

It's great having a good conscience with God, and a relationship with God:

  Proverbs 23:17 - Let not your heart envy sinners, but continue in the fear
  of the LORD all the day. (ESV)

We're supposed to live this way as Christians:

  Acts 9:31 - So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had
  peace and was being built up. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in
  the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied. (ESV)

2. We must have a hatred of one's own sin:

  Proverbs 8:13 - The fear of the LORD is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance
  and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate. (ESV)

  To be a Christian doesn't mean that we are without sin this side of heaven,
  but it does mean that we have a hatred for our own sin, that we are
  wrestling with the flesh that is still inside us even as Jesus is making us
  new, rather than being complacent over our sin.

  Romans 7:19-20 - For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not
  want is what I keep on doing. Now if I do what I do not want, it is no
  longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. (ESV)

It's really important to turn from sin:

  I John 3:5-6 - You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him
  there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who
  keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.

We endeavour to be justified through faithful obedience to Jesus, and if we
fall short, we still believe Christ has us covered. But we do endeavour, we
do try:

  Galatians 2:17 - But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too
  were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not!
  (ESV)

  I Peter 3:15 - but in your hearts regard Christ the Lord as holy, always
  being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for
  the hope that is in you; (ESV)

youtube.com: Paul Washer - Ongoing Sin @time: 2 min 16 sec

3. Our faith has been tested, and results in praise and glory and honour at
the revelation of Jesus Christ:

  I Peter 1:6-7 - In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if
  necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested
  genuineness of your faith—more precious than gold that perishes though it
  is tested by fire—may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at
  the revelation of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

3.20.1. By the Spirit Jesus has given us

  II Corinthians 1:22 - and who has also put his seal on us and given us his
  Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. (ESV)

  I John 4:13-16 - By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because
  he has given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father
  has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that
  Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. So we have come
  to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and
  whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:7-9 - for God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and
  love and self-control. Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about
  our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by
  the power of God, who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because
  of our works but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in
  Christ Jesus before the ages began, (ESV)

3.21. Indicators that we are of the truth

A strong indicator that we are of the truth is that against every
condemnation, we know God is greater than our heart and knows everything

  I John 3:18-20 - Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in
  deed and in truth. By this we shall know that we are of the truth and
  reassure our heart before him; for whenever our heart condemns us, God is
  greater than our heart, and he knows everything.

A strong indicator that we are of the truth is that we have the fear of
Jehovah God in our hearts, that we do not turn from Him:

  Jeremiah 32:40 - I will make with them an everlasting covenant, that I will
  not turn away from doing good to them. And I will put the fear of me in
  their hearts, that they may not turn from me. (ESV)

More strong indicators that we are of the truth are that:

• if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God:
• whatever we ask of God, we receive from Him
• because we keep His commandments and do what pleases Him
• we know we are believing in the name of His Son Jesus Christ,
and
• we know we are loving one another,
• just has He has commanded us.

  I John 3:21-23 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment,
  that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another,
  just as he has commanded us. (ESV)

Who is of God listens to us:

  I John 4:6 - We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is
  not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and
  the spirit of error.

We know that God abides in us by the Spirit whom He has given us:

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us.

4. Following Jesus

  Isaiah 30:20-21 - And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and
  the water of affliction, yet your Teacher will not hide himself anymore,
  but your eyes shall see your Teacher. And your ears shall hear a word
  behind you, saying, This is the way, walk in it, when you turn to the right
  or when you turn to the left.

I believe the above prophetically talks about Jesus. We must obey Jesus. God
doesn't guarantee that following Jesus will be easy.

Song
youtube.com: Steve Apirana - I Have Decided

  John 6:44-46 - No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws
  him. And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the
  Prophets, And they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and
  learned from the Father comes to me— not that anyone has seen the Father
  except he who is from God; he has seen the Father. (ESV)

  II John 1:6 - And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments;
  this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that
  you should walk in it. (ESV)

  II Peter 2:20-21 - For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the
  world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are
  again entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for
  them than the first. For it would have been better for them never to have
  known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the
  holy commandment delivered to them.

  Matthew 21:32 - For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you
  did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed
  him. And even when you saw it, you did not afterward change your minds and
  believe him.

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
  No one comes to the Father except through me.

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

4.1. Being led by the Spirit is not license to sin

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

Repenting from sin, including such things as idolatry, witchcraft, jealousy
and sexual immorality is all a part of following Jesus and being led by the
Spirit.

Sermon
youtube.com: The Trademarks of Witchcraft - Derek Prince

Practicing witchcraft, for example, is definitely not loving your neighbour
as yourself.

Being led by the Spirit and obeying God, repenting from sin and passing
forward love and forgiveness, we have our souls purified:

  I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  (ESV)

4.2. Walk by the Spirit = Obey Jesus = Led by the Spirit = Walk in the light as
He is in the light

• Walk in the truth
• Walk in a way that is in alignment, allegiance and agreement with
Jesus and Jesus' teachings.
• Under Christ, in Christ, following Christ, aligning to Christ and His
teachings
• Being sanctified in the Truth

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
  (ESV)

Keeping a clean room can be walking in the light but it might also not be.
What matters is whether or not a person is trusting, believing and obeying
Jesus. It's the heart that matters.

4.2.1. God loved us first, and forgave us first

Forgiveness from God is received by faith:

  Romans 3:25 - whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be
  received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. (ESV)

Because God loved us first:

• The Apostle Paul endeavours to know Jesus ('makes it his own'. See Php
| 9-13 below) because Jesus made Paul His own
• To be found in Jesus is what Paul describes as the righteousness
from God that depends on faith
• We know Jesus by believing in Him and obeying His commandments, and
when we love and forgive we know God loved us and forgive us first
• We should love because He loved us first
• We must forgive as we have been forgiven

God cancelled the record of debt of our sin with the blood of Jesus Christ:

  Colossians 2:14 - by canceling the record of debt that stood against us
  with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. (ESV)

4.2.2. God's kindness is meant to lead us to repentance from sin

We are supposed to have a response of repentance from sin. God's kindness is
meant to lead us to repentance from sin. And turning from sin is a loving
response to grace given:

  Romans 2:4 - Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and
  forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead
  you to repentance? (ESV)

We are supposed to have a response of love for Jesus. God's forgiveness
should lead us to love God and want to obey Him:

  Luke 7:42-43 - When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both. Now
  which of them will love him more? Simon answered, The one, I suppose, for
  whom he cancelled the larger debt. And he said to him, You have judged
  rightly. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: In Christ Alone {My Hope Is Found} - Adrienne Liesching | LYRIC
VIDEO

It's for our own good that we stop sinning. Sin is burdensome:

  II Timothy 3:6-9 - For among them are those who creep into households and
  capture weak women, burdened with sins and led astray by various passions,
  always learning and never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth. Just
  as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these men also oppose the truth,
  men corrupted in mind and disqualified regarding the faith. But they will
  not get very far, for their folly will be plain to all, as was that of
  those two men. (ESV)

  Hebrews 12:1 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  (ESV)

Sin made against our own body is really bad for us. This is a warning:

  I Corinthians 6:16-20 - Or do you not know that he who is joined to a
  prostitute becomes one body with her? For, as it is written, The two will
  become one flesh. But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with
  him. Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is
  outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own
  body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit
  within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were
  bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. (ESV)

  Romans 13:14 - But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for
  the flesh, to gratify its desires. (ESV)

Sin no more so that nothing worse happens:

  John 5:14 - Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See,
  you are well! Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. (ESV)

  John 8:10-11 - Jesus stood up and said to her, Woman, where are they? Has
  no one condemned you? She said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I
  condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more. (ESV)

Sin enslaves. We're supposed to stop doing it. Jesus payed the price of sin
for us to set us free from it and we shouldn't let ourselves become enslaved
by sin again.

Quote by Tim Keller
When you do a sin, it has a powerful effect in which your own freedom - your
freedom to want the good, to will the good, to think the good or understand
the good is being undermined so that you are more and more by sin losing your
freedom. It undermines your mind, it undermines your emotions and it
undermines your will.

4.2.3. Subsequent behaviour - the Golden Rule and the Royal Law, faith working
through love

When it comes to 'works' and 'law-keeping', I believe disciples of Jesus
should know they have been forgiven by grace through faith and they should
also practice their righteousness and a person who has accepted forgiveness
for their sin by the atonement made in Jesus' blood should certainly
endeavour after that to fulfill practically the Royal Law, that is to love
one's neighbour as themself, even owing that to other people:

  Romans 13:8 - Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one
  who loves another has fulfilled the law. (ESV)

  Galatians 6:2-6 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he
  deceives himself. But let each one test his own work, and then his reason
  to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor. For each will
  have to bear his own load. One who is taught the word must share all good
  things with the one who teaches. (ESV)

  I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  (ESV)

The Golden Rule, I think explains that we should behave like a child of
Father God who is by nature Good and gives good gifts to His children, and
gifts that are truly good, far exceeding any amount of favour we might show
our own children. As we behave like a child of Father God, believing the
gospel of Jesus, and loving with Christ's love, we can really say our Father
is God, as a child takes after their parents, and a child of Father God
behaves like Jesus and follows Jesus. We try to follow Jesus, and imitate
Christ's pattern, as Christ is the Son of God.

youtube.com: Sin as Slavery - Timothy Keller Sermon

When it comes to behavior when it comes to the behavior that religions ask
and demand and urge upon us, there is almost absolute complete uniformity and
universal consensus we're not supposed to tell lies, we're not supposed to
break our promises, we're not supposed to rob or murder each other, but
respect each other.

In that sense we're supposed to live with justice and equity. We're supposed
to live by the Golden Rule. We're supposed to be generous with with our
possessions. There's, you know, several of these things every religion -
everybody - understands that we should live that way.

There's universal consensus that we should live that way, and then of course
on top of that we know that the main reason for all the misery in the world
is because we don't live that way. The main reason for all the problems of
the of our society is because people don't live that way. Now when everybody
agrees what we should be doing what's right, there there's no doubt and
everybody agrees that the reason that we're miserable is because we're not
doing it - the Bible's explanation is that human hearts are sinful but beyond
that that we're slaves to sin.

We should love others, as we would want to be loved by others. God gives
common grace to all people, even the evil. We should love in this way, as our
Father in Heaven:

  Matthew 5:45 - so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For
  he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the
  just and on the unjust. (ESV)

I do not think the Golden Rule is saying that "God is humanity." Neither do I
think the Golden Rule is saying that God treats us precisely how we treat
others.

I think the Golden Rule is really telling us to be loving, and love our
enemies, as we would want to be loved by our enemies - love people the way
Father God loves us:

  Matthew 7:9-12 - Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will
  give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent? If you
  then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much
  more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask
  him! So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for
  this is the Law and the Prophets. (ESV)

We should be imitators of God's love:

  Psalms 103:8 - The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and
  abounding in steadfast love. (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:1-2 - Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And
  walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant
  offering and sacrifice to God. (ESV)

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

Love your enemies as well as your friends. Be like Your Heavenly Father. Be
perfect. Love (25. agapaó) your enemies means "treasuring your enemies" and
looks like not repaying evil for evil. It sometimes looks like refusing to do
evil and instead doing good to those who do you harm, taking the initiative
in overcoming evil with good:

  Matthew 5:43-48 - You have heard that it was said, You shall love your
  neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray
  for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is
  in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends
  rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you,
  what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if
  you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not
  even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect, as your
  heavenly Father is perfect. (ESV)

  Proverbs 25:21-22 - If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if
  he is thirsty, give him water to drink, for you will heap burning coals on
  his head, and the LORD will reward you. (ESV)

Also, as far as law-keeping goes, I believe Christians are not prohibited
from following other parts of the Mosaic Law by faith.

Also, different to the Apostle Paul's conviction, I am persuaded in the Lord
Jesus that there are things that I should commit to doing for Jesus to be
faithful to Him.

Consider downloading N64 ROMS. I don't want to do it any longer. It feels
wrong to me. Also, I consider AI fiction to be unclean, so I would avoid it.

  Romans 14:23 - But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the
  eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.
  (ESV)

Here are a few reasons why I don't like AI fiction.

Lies and deceit:

• Using AI fiction to write a cover letter for a job application
• Resulting in increased difficulty in getting a job for refusing to
write lies on a resume
• Using AI fiction to misrepresent yourself and lure girls over a dating
platform
• Using AI fiction to impersonate or misrepresent people

Adultery:

• Fantasizing over AI fiction

The systems are mostly built/trained using theft:

• Stealing intellectual property (code, artwork, style etc.)
• https://suchir.net/fair_use.html
• …

Like blood diamonds and laundered money, these LLMs are generally not clean
from my perspective, and what they produce is not clean, and the way they're
often used is not clean.

So if I am experiencing persecution for refusing to use AI fiction to
misrepresent myself to get ahead, then I am being persecuted for
righteousness-sake and I have a lot of faith that God will honour that I want
to obey Him and not sin, and I'm grieved by the use of AI to misrepresent and
manipulate people.

  Ezekiel 9:4 - And the LORD said to him, Pass through the city, through
  Jerusalem, and put a mark on the foreheads of the men who sigh and groan
  over all the abominations that are committed in it. (ESV)

I think a lot of people are literally blinded from being able to see the
truth of this:

  II Corinthians 4:4 - In their case the god of this world has blinded the
  minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel
  of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. (ESV)

I rebuke AI fiction in Jesus Christ's name and I choose to allow my mind to
be conformed to the mind of Christ and I choose to listen to the voice of
Christ and follow Christ. All of the generative AI stuff I consider to be
unclean.

Dietrich Bonhoeffer
"I do believe that the church is one of the foundations of our civilization.
Without the church performing its sacramental and pastoral functions, the
forces of barbarism would be given free sway. The church cannot remain a
positive force if it continues to remove itself from the stress and strain of
contemporary events. The church has a prophetic role to play in the world,
not just a pastoral role. The true church and the world can that always be
unfriendly terms. The sort of friendliness between church and society that we
have cultivated in the past is actually the cause of the churches increasing
irrelevance."

God I hate living in this world. It's a cesspool. I just feel as though it's
on the abyss.

  Revelation of John 18:4 - Then I heard another voice from heaven saying,
  Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in her sins, lest you share
  in her plagues; (ESV)

Everyone will give an account of themself to God:

  Romans 14:12 - So then each of us will give an account of himself to God.
  (ESV)

  Romans 14:14-15 - I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is
  unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. For
  if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in
  love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. (ESV)

  Mark 7:18-19 - And he said to them, Then are you also without
  understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside
  cannot defile him, since it enters not his heart but his stomach, and is
  expelled? (Thus he declared all foods clean.) (ESV)

In some cases, I might even admire those that go beyond what a law strictly
requires, inclusive of what the law requires. If a person wanted to go beyond
Exodus 20:13 to avoid eating meat to spare the lives of animals and make
themself accountable to God over that in the hope it pleases God then I
admire that commitment actually, but I wouldn't let anyone pass judgement on
me over eating meat myself:

  Romans 14:16 - So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil.
  (ESV)

Christians should both submit to the righteousness of God through faith in
Jesus Christ, having the imputed righteousness of Christ that we believe we
have as we are walking with Christ and Christians should practice
righteousness too (as Jesus said, "go and sin no more"), and Christians
should seek to keep accountability primarily to God in regards to the law
because He sees everything, and secondarily have good conscience with men, to
love as Jesus loved, and give to Caesar what is Caesar's, but give to God
what is God's - and God owns our hearts - and we should be prepared to die
for Jesus, and remain faithful to Jesus:

  Matthew 23:2-7 - The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so
  practice and observe whatever they tell you—but not what they do. For they
  preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and
  lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move
  them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For
  they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long, and they love
  the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues and
  greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others. (ESV)

We love in the knowledge we have already been loved first when God sent Jesus
Christ to pay for our sin with His blood. I was born-again of the Spirit and
regenerated on 2 April 2022.

That's how we are found in God, by accepting that He loved us first through
Jesus Christ, and God puts us into Him.

  John 13:6-7 - He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my
  feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but
  afterward you will understand. (ESV)

After being born-again of the spirit I don't say I'm completely sinless -
that would be deceiving myself.

But I continue walking in the light, in trusting obedience to Jesus, and
Jesus' blood continues to cleanse me from all sin:

  I John 1:7-9 - But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
  fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
  from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth
  is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
  our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. (ESV)

It is clear that following Jesus helps us to not sin, which means that the
destructiveness of sin for us is still a reality if we are not following
Jesus. We get on top of it by following Jesus and walking by His Spirit:

  Galatians 5:14-16 - For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall
  love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another,
  watch out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the
  Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. (ESV)

Someone who has just been "born of God" is an infant in Christ and is counted
as a child of God, but an infant. I mention this because an infant grows into
maturity, into living in the Spirit the way that God does, into thinking and
behaving as a mature child of God:

  I Corinthians 3:1 - But I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual
  people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ. (ESV)

  Romans 8:14 - For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.
  (ESV)

A person who is mature in Christ has faith in Christ, follows the teachings
of Christ and the pattern of His life, and is spiritually minded, and thinks
with Christ's wisdom, not worldly wisdom, and lives for the will of God:

  Colossians 1:28 - Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone
  with all wisdom, that we may present everyone mature in Christ. (ESV)

We must live in the spirit the way God does, not for human passions, but for
the will of God:

  I Peter 4:1-6 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the
  flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the
  flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. The time that
  is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in
  sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless
  idolatry. With respect to this they are surprised when you do not join them
  in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you; but they will give
  account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is
  why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged
  in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God
  does. (ESV)

Living by the Golden Rule (or better, the Royal Law) still comes after having
been forgiven by Jesus:

  Matthew 7:12 - So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to
  them, for this is the Law and the Prophets. (ESV)

I've heard it said Christians "do not need to follow the Golden Rule". But
the Golden Rule is at the heart of Christ's law and even after being
born-again and accepting forgiveness from God, we should walk in the light,
following Christ's law.

Applying love to the Golden Rule, we have the second of the great
commandments, the Royal Law, which is to: "Love your neighbour as yourself".
It's actually very important.

We are supposed to fulfill the Royal Law, even after having received
forgiveness:

  James 2:1 - My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our
  Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. (ESV)

Committing sin can still happen after having been forgiven. Committing sin
happens when we do not fulfill the Royal Law, or when we are showing unfair
bias as we do it. Therefore being led by the Spirit of Jesus, we should be
abiding by the Royal law, and to be deliberately breaking the Royal law, a
person could no longer say they are being led by the Spirit of Jesus:

  James 2:8-9 - If you really fulfill the royal law according to the
  Scripture, You shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well.
  But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the
  law as transgressors. (ESV)

But we must love like Christ loved us in the knowledge that He loved us
first. We must forgive our family in Christ, as we have been forgiven:

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

Also, I believe that abiding by Christ's law and loving your neighbour as
yourself does not cancel out the rest of the law of God, but that a person
must be actually following Christ by obeying Christ's commandments in order
to not be "under the law" and to be "not guilty".

Following Jesus starts with believing in Him and believing He is the Son of
God, and Anointed one, the Messiah, and following Jesus continues in getting
to know Him through obedience to Him:

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

So an important part of being led by the Spirit of Jesus and being not "under
the law" is to continuing to forgive one another as we have been forgiven by
Jesus, and walk in the light as He is in the light.

In Christ Jesus, as we are abiding in Jesus, getting to know Jesus through
obedience to Him, getting to know Him in Spirit as we get really intimate
with Jesus, walking as He walked, we have the peace of God:

  Philippians 4:7 - And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding,
  will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

Following Jesus includes your thought life:

  Philippians 4:8 - Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is
  honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever
  is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of
  praise, think about these things. (ESV)

All people should seek to follow the Royal Law which is to love one's
neighbour as themself, bearing their neighbours burdens and forgiving one
another, but who has done that perfectly?

Quote by Tim Keller
"I want you to meet the needs of other people with all of the strength, with
all of the joy and all of the creativity and with all of the speed with which
you meet your own needs. 12 hours, that's all - Golden Rule, just try it"

As Christians we were at one time disobedient, and were not able to do this
perfectly, and we have been saved by Jesus, having been forgiven by Him, and
after we are grafted into Christ, we now have His righteousness and Almighty
God as our Father, and Jesus is our Master and we seek to please our Master,
like the All Blacks try to please their coach, and we seek to follow the
Royal Law, which is a part of being obedient to Jesus. We have His Spirit,
and His Spirit helps us to do this.

Quote by Billy Graham
And he fell down before them and says, "What must I do to be saved? And they
gave him a very simple answer, not something complicated. Simple, so that
nobody here can ever say that you did you couldn't do it. He said believe on
the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Believe, commit your life to
Christ, and you shall be saved. It commits the believer wholeheartedly to one
about whose person and work he has gained a clear-cut conviction.

Quote by Billy Graham

And it's so simple that millions stumble over it.

People think it's so complicated to be a Christian, to be a true follower of
Christ. No, it is not. You start out very simply.

That first step is to say, "Lord, I'm sorry for my sin. I turn from my sin. I
receive Christ as my Lord and Savior."

Now two things are involved in believing on the Lord Jesus Christ. One is
repentance. It means that you rethink. The word repentance means "change". I
change my attitude. I change my way of living. But you cannot change by
yourself. You need God to help you to change. So he sends the Holy Spirit to
help you in the changing process.

And then, secondly, it means trust. Faith is described in the Bible as the
substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Faith or
belief is not faith without evidence, but commitment without reservation. It
means that you hold nothing back. You totally commit this life, the future
life, and everything you are or everything you hope to be to the person of
Jesus Christ.

  Titus 3:8-15 - The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these
  things, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote
  themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for
  people. But avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and
  quarrels about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. As for a
  person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have
  nothing more to do with him, knowing that such a person is warped and
  sinful; he is self-condemned. When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, do
  your best to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the
  winter there. Do your best to speed Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their
  way; see that they lack nothing. And let our people learn to devote
  themselves to good works, so as to help cases of urgent need, and not be
  unfruitful. All who are with me send greetings to you. Greet those who love
  us in the faith. Grace be with you all. (ESV)

4.2.4. God's name must be hallowed. We should not take it in vain

  Matthew 6:9 - Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your
  name. (ESV)

|  Dear Heavenly Father,
|  hallowed be Your name.
|  Please forgive me, Father God, for using Your name where it ought not to be used,
|  and for any misrepresentation I have made.
|  In Jesus Christ's name I ask,
|  AMEN!!

For this reason, I think that Bible translations such as the ESV, correctly
are reserved about printing the LORD's name inline throughout the whole
Bible. The JW, as they consolidate their Bible translation (NWT) using the
LORD's name, seems to me either like an effort to try to engineer God, or
self-affirm their own understanding, which is self-exalting but may
(especially by those in their congregation) be done in ignorance. I do not
affirm the NWT translation, but I do affirm the doctrine of Sola Scriptura.

However, I also neither like the way in which the names of other so-called
gods are used in other translations of Scriptures and I can understand the
concern about that:

  Exodus 23:13 - Pay attention to all that I have said to you, and make no
  mention of the names of other gods, nor let it be heard on your lips. (ESV)

Let's have reverence for Jehovah God and serve Him:

  Malachi 3:15-18 - And now we call the arrogant blessed. Evildoers not only
  prosper but they put God to the test and they escape. Then those who feared
  the LORD spoke with one another. The LORD paid attention and heard them,
  and a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the
  LORD and esteemed his name. They shall be mine, says the LORD of hosts, in
  the day when I make up my treasured possession, and I will spare them as a
  man spares his son who serves him. Then once more you shall see the
  distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between one who serves
  God and one who does not serve him. (ESV)

These Scriptures refers to Jesus' name:

  Matthew 18:20 - For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I
  among them. (ESV)

  Matthew 18:19-20 - Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about
  anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For
  where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them. (ESV)

The JW are right to affirm that we must remember God's name. Exodus 3:15 and
Malachi 3:16 refer to God's name, Yhvh, and Christians within the English
speaking world generally affirm the name is spoken as Jehovah or Yahweh. It's
right that we must affirm God's name and remember God's name:

  Exodus 3:13-15 - Then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel
  and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask
  me, What is his name? what shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I AM WHO
  I AM. And he said, Say this to the people of Israel, I AM has sent me to
  you. God also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel, The LORD
  (3068. Yhvh), the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of
  Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever,
  and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. (ESV)

  Exodus 9:16 - But for this purpose I have raised you up, to show you my
  power, so that my name may be proclaimed in all the earth. (ESV)

|  Yhvh: the proper name of the God of Israel
|  Original Word: יהוה
|  Part of Speech: Proper Name
|  Transliteration: Yhvh
|  Phonetic Spelling: (yeh-ho-vaw')
|  Definition: the proper name of the God of Israel

  Malachi 3:16 - Then those who feared the LORD spoke with one another. The
  LORD paid attention and heard them, and a book of remembrance was written
  before him of those who feared the LORD and esteemed his name. (ESV)

Father God has given Jesus Christ all authority in heaven and on earth. In
other words, Jesus Christ is God, just as Jehovah is God and Holy Spirit is
God:

  Philippians 2:9-10 - Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on
  him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every
  knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, (ESV)

  Matthew 28:18-20 - And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven
  and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all
  nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the
  Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And
  behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age. (ESV)

  Hebrews 3:6 - but Christ is faithful over God's house as a son. And we are
  his house if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our
  hope. (ESV)

4.2.5. Christ-like humility

  Philippians 2:5-6 - Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in
  Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality
  with God a thing to be grasped, (ESV)

And God in His mercy saves us and brings us to Himself through Jesus His Son:

  Ephesians 2:1-5 - And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you
  once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of
  the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of
  disobedience— among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh,
  carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature
  children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in mercy,
  because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in
  our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ—by grace you have been
  saved— (ESV)

As I was on my way driving to Elim church today, I was thinking "external
holiness/cleanliness" is a good thing. Jesus told some hypocritical Pharisees
who were teachers of the Law but unclean within that they were like
_whitewashed tombs.

  Matthew 23:26-28 - You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup
  and the plate, that the outside also may be clean. Woe to you, scribes and
  Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs, which outwardly
  appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people's bones and all
  uncleanness. So you also outwardly appear righteous to others, but within
  you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. (ESV)

The Pharisees were focusing on external cleanliness but ignoring their own
hearts.

When we think of sin, it involves being enslaved to the practice of it, and
it also involves the heart's desire of it. Sinful thoughts should be quickly
disposed of and not allowed to be sown in the heart.

If we focus on cleaning the heart through obedience to the Truth and the
washing of the Word in our heart, then that's the most important thing. We
can be justified by humbling ourselves before God.

  Luke 18:11-14 - The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: God, I
  thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers,
  or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all
  that I get. But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up
  his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a
  sinner! I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than
  the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who
  humbles himself will be exalted. (ESV)

But our external circumstances may be making it difficult to meet the
external appearance of obedient faith, such as "being employed and working
money" which is important as to bear one's own load by working is a
commandment from the Apostle Paul, but having paid employment in this world
to earn your keep is no sure indication of actual obedient faith in the heart
of the person.

  II Thessalonians 3:10 - For even when we were with you, we would give you
  this command: If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. (ESV)

If we focus on cleaning the heart through obedience to the Truth and the
washing of the Word, then that's the priority over trying to maintain the
external appearance of godliness. The devil can take your job, but should not
be allowed to take your obedience and faith and love for the Lord Jesus. It's
good and glorifies God to keep obeying Jesus' commandments to serve Him,
serving others, even if the devil puts pressure on you to make you fear for
your own self-preservation.

That doesn't mean we don't endeavour to meet the commandment of the Apostle
Paul but we are baptised into Christ, not into Paul, and Christ is our
Master, not Paul, nor the Law of Moses. We are enslaved to Christ who is our
righteousness - we are enslaved to Righteousness, obeying Jesus. The
requirement of the Law is really fulfilled in our hearts and then that should
become apparent on our outside.

We are made clean on the inside of the Word which Jesus has spoken to us:

  John 15:3 - Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to
  you. (ESV)

  Ephesians 1:13 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, (ESV)

  Acts 10:43 - To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who
  believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name. (ESV)

That Word should clean our souls as we believe/obey it. The gospel (that seed
of Truth) then cleans our hearts as we believe/obey it. And then we live in
good conscience with God (forgiven and repentant), holding to the Truth - all
of what we have heard from Jesus including the teaching about godliness
(righteous living in accord with the knowledge of God, in accord with
repentance). Our exterior behaviour also is cleaned as our hearts and
thoughts are cleansed. We must continue to believe and obey Jesus as we
read/hear His words.

  Matthew 17:5 - He was still speaking when, behold, a bright cloud
  overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved Son,
  with whom I am well pleased; listen to him. (ESV)

4.2.6. Anti-christ-like behaviour

Pride and insubordination against God is antichrist-like behaviour:

  II Thessalonians 2:3-4 - Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day
  will not come, unless the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness
  is revealed, the son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself against
  every so-called god or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the
  temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. (ESV)

Now with regards to the way people should (or shouldn't) act:

Quote by Tim Keller
Know what the Bible says: Sin is craving something more than God. Sin is
making something more important than God. Sin is is living for something more
than God. If God is at the periphery of your life, if you're just religious
occasionally, if God [is] sort of on the outskirts of your life, that is sin.
That's the essence of sin.

It's really important to respect the testimony of the Cross:

Polycarp 6:3
For every one who shall not confess that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh,
is antichrist: and whosoever shall not confess the testimony of the Cross, is
of the devil; and whosoever shall pervert the oracles of the Lord to his own
lusts and say that there is neither resurrection nor judgment, that man is
the firstborn of Satan.

Bad or unchrist-like behaviour might be making money or some other thing more
important than God to "get ahead" materially, placing burdens on others to
fulfill the same materialistic/worldly standard, especially on those who have
their priorities already in the correct order (they are obeying God, and are
keeping their heart clean) and not lifting a finger to help them but actually
make things more difficult. What I really mean is, it is the opposite of
teaching Christlikeness to force someone to clean up their outward appearance
or to meet certain worldly standards when they are in relationship Jesus,
spending their time trying to help other people, and the bad outward
appearance is a result of sacrificing for others following Jesus - I mean it
is anti-christ-like behaviour to try to stop people from following Jesus or
punish people for following Jesus.

  John 19:28 - After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to
  fulfill the Scripture), I thirst. (ESV)

  Matthew 23:26 - You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and
  the plate, that the outside also may be clean. (ESV)

Jesus came to help us, shed His blood for us as atonement to ransom us from
our sin, so that we can be set free from it and put a stop to it, and to
bring us to God. Jesus certainly has made it easier for us to obey God, and
we can be sanctified by His blood:

  Luke 23:36-37 - The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him
  sour wine and saying, If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself! (ESV)

  Psalms 69:21 - They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me
  sour wine to drink. (ESV)

I still consider that what matters is obedience to God from the heart:

  John 8:44 - You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your
  father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to
  do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he
  speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 23:27-28 - Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  are like whitewashed tombs, which outwardly appear beautiful, but within
  are full of dead people's bones and all uncleanness. So you also outwardly
  appear righteous to others, but within you are full of hypocrisy and
  lawlessness. (ESV)

We are also supposed to speak up for the God's Truth. We should affirm sound
Christian teaching when it comes to what is sinful. Just because we may not
judge others when it comes to something sinful, that doesn't mean that God
wont judge us for practicing and affirming something sinful.

It's not loving to make life harder on people by placing higher standards of
exterior 'cleanliness' without helping them to achieve it, when in reality
the way to achieve it is to clean the inside first:

  Matthew 23:4 - They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on
  people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with
  their finger. (ESV)

  Matthew 23:25-29 - Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of
  greed and self-indulgence. You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of
  the cup and the plate, that the outside also may be clean. Woe to you,
  scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs,
  which outwardly appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people's
  bones and all uncleanness. So you also outwardly appear righteous to
  others, but within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Woe to you,
  scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets
  and decorate the monuments of the righteous, (ESV)

  Luke 11:39 - And the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees cleanse the
  outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside you are full of greed and
  wickedness. (ESV)

youtube.com: Living For The Lord Jesus - A Fulfilled Life - Mar Mari Emmanuel

Specific example:

  Let's say there is a poor by appearances (but rich in God) person on the
  street who loves God with all their heart but has a rough outward
  appearance and the reason they have a rough outwards appearance is because
  the world hates them as a result of their faith in Jesus, being obedient to
  Jesus. Now along comes a worldly person who loves money, the pride of life
  and the pride of their possessions, and they love and desire money more
  than they love God (this is one reason why I don't like the prosperity
  gospel). This worldly person goes up to the poor person on the street and
  says they must be burdened with sin because of their outward appearance,
  that they are poor because of sin, rather than because of obedience, that
  must should their eyes away from following God and focus on worldly things,
  that they have demons and need to clean up their appearance to be a real
  Christian, and they don't lift a finger to help the poor person meet their
  standard of exterior wellbeing. The worldly ignorant person has just acted
  like the blind Pharisees, and not like the good Samaritan. The materially
  poor person may be in that situation because they were the good Samaritan
  to someone and saved someone's life.

  John 15:18-20 - If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it
  hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own;
  but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world,
  therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: A
  servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will
  also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. (ESV)

The one worrying about the material things isn't in doing so exhibiting the
love of the Father in them but the poor person who loves God does - the
materially poor but rich in faith person has their priorities in order and
doesn't need correction from the natural, worldly person, but rather needs
mercy from the materialistic worldly person.

  Revelation of John 2:9 - I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you
  are rich) and the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not,
  but are a synagogue of Satan. (ESV)

And the materialistic, worldly person needs to learn from the poor person so
they can put God first:

  Revelation of John 3:17 - For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I
  need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind,
  and naked. (ESV)

This is not glorifying poverty, but rather is about the truth of the matter
that we must have God as our top love in our heart:

  I John 2:15 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the world.
  If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:21 - For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
  (ESV)

  James 2:5-8 - Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are
  poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he
  has promised to those who love him? But you have dishonored the poor man.
  Are not the rich the ones who oppress you, and the ones who drag you into
  court? Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you
  were called? If you really fulfill the royal law according to the
  Scripture, You shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well.
  (ESV)

It's the ones who serve Jesus who God delights in their prosperity:

  Psalms 35:27 - Let those who delight in my righteousness shout for joy and
  be glad and say evermore, Great is the LORD, who delights in the welfare of
  his servant! (ESV)

Servants serve:

  Mark 10:43-45 - But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be
  great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you
  must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to
  serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:25-34 - Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life,
  what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you
  will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
  Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into
  barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value
  than they? And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his
  span of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies
  of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you,
  even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God
  so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is
  thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little
  faith? Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or What
  shall we drink? or What shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after all
  these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But
  seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things
  will be added to you. Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for
  tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own
  trouble. (ESV)

4.2.7. We should welcome people who hear Jesus' words and want to learn how to
follow Jesus, and we should give them Jesus' words

If anyone claims to be a believer but does not abide in the teaching of
Christ, they do not have God, and we should not associate with them. We need
to cling to Christ's words and teachings and use them to correct our brothers
in Christ. If there is resistance to Christ's teachings within the church,
then that is not good.

We should let people in who want to follow Jesus. We should give the cold
shoulder to people who do not want to follow Jesus.

If anyone claims to be a believer but doesn't abide in Christ's teachings
then don't welcome that person in.

It's really important that we continue in the teaching of Christ and about
Christ and allow ourselves to come into agreement with the teaching of Christ
and about Christ.

We should separate ourselves from people who do not stay/remain/abide in the
teaching of Christ (including about service and godliness) and about Christ
(doctrine, even from the gospel accounts, eyewitnesses, etc.). If people do
not want to continue in the teaching of Christ and about Christ, and they do
not abide in it, and do not want to be corrected by the Word of God, then we
should separate ourselves from them:

  II John 1:7-11 - For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who
  do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the
  deceiver and the antichrist. Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose
  what we have worked for, but may win a full reward. Everyone who goes on
  ahead and does not abide in the teaching (1322. didaché) of Christ, does
  not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the
  Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not
  receive him into your house or give him any greeting, for whoever greets
  him takes part in his wicked works. (ESV)

We must also withdraw ourselves from false teachers who bring in destructive
heresies, particularly those teaching us we don't need to serve/obey the
Master who bought us:

  II Peter 2:1 - But false prophets also arose among the people, just as
  there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in
  destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing
  upon themselves swift destruction. (ESV)

Read
bibleoutlines.com: Bible Outlines - Jude 1-4 - Doctrine Worth Fighting For -
Combating False Teachers

  Jude 1:4 - For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were
  designated for this condemnation, ungodly people, who pervert the grace of
  our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.
  (ESV)

  Jude 1:4 - For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of
  old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of our
  God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our Lord Jesus
  Christ. (KJV)

We shouldn't exclude those who are following Jesus and being taught by Jesus,
and producing the right fruits. The ones who serve Jesus are obedient to Him:

  Romans 16:17-19 - I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who
  cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have
  been taught; avoid them. For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but
  their own appetites, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the
  hearts of the naive. For your obedience is known to all, so that I rejoice
  over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and innocent as to
  what is evil. (ESV)

  Luke 6:22-23 - Blessed are you when people hate you and when they exclude
  you and revile you and spurn your name as evil, on account of the Son of
  Man! Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is
  great in heaven; for so their fathers did to the prophets. (ESV)

We must produce the right fruits:

  Matthew 21:43 - Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away
  from you and given to a people producing its fruits. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:5-7 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure
  heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. Certain persons, by
  swerving from these, have wandered away into vain discussion, desiring to
  be teachers of the law, without understanding either what they are saying
  or the things about which they make confident assertions. (ESV)

We must produce the right fruits, not the wrong fruits. And we certainly
shouldn't shut out people who are producing the right fruits:

  Matthew 23:13 - But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. For you neither enter
  yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:14 - but Jesus said, Let the little children come to me and do
  not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. (ESV)

  I John 1:7 - But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
  fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
  from all sin. (ESV)

  I Timothy 6:1-5 - Let all who are under a yoke as slaves regard their own
  masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and the teaching
  may not be reviled. Those who have believing masters must not be
  disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers; rather they must serve
  all the better since those who benefit by their good service are believers
  and beloved. Teach and urge these things. If anyone teaches a different
  doctrine and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ
  and the teaching that accords with godliness, he is puffed up with conceit
  and understands nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and
  for quarrels about words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil
  suspicions, and constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and
  deprived of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain. (ESV)

If anyone claims to be a believer but is an unrepentant sinner then don't
allow that person in:

  I Corinthians 5:11-13 - But now I am writing to you not to associate with
  anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality
  or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler — not even to
  eat with such a one. For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it
  not those inside the church whom you are to judge? God judges those
  outside. Purge the evil person from among you. (ESV)

Read
https://www.desiringgod.org/interviews/avoid-the-unrepentant-but-what-if-theyre-family

If anyone claims to be a believer but does not agape (treasure) his brother,
they are still in darkness:

  I John 2:9 - Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still
  in darkness. (ESV)

We are all stewards of God's varied grace so there is obligation to serve one
another:

  I Peter 4:10 - As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as
  good stewards of God's varied grace: (ESV)

Churches should be teaching Jesus' teachings, and we should be teaching each
other to abide in Christ's teachings without hypocrisy (i.e. whilst abiding
ourselves in Christ's teachings):

  Luke 12:42-49 - And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and wise
  manager, whom his master will set over his household, to give them their
  portion of food at the proper time? Blessed is that servant whom his master
  will find so doing when he comes. Truly, I say to you, he will set him over
  all his possessions. But if that servant says to himself, My master is
  delayed in coming, and begins to beat the male and female servants, and to
  eat and drink and get drunk, the master of that servant will come on a day
  when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know, and will cut
  him in pieces and put him with the unfaithful. And that servant who knew
  his master's will but did not get ready or act according to his will, will
  receive a severe beating. But the one who did not know, and did what
  deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was
  given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted
  much, they will demand the more. I came to cast fire on the earth, and
  would that it were already kindled! (ESV)

4.2.8. God definitely disciplines us even if we love Jesus - every son he
receives

The ones who love Jesus, keep His teachings:

  John 14:23-24 - Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my
  word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our
  home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the
  word that you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me. (ESV)

God definitely disciplines us, even if we love Jesus and keep Jesus'
commandments:

  Hebrews 12:6-8 - For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises
  every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure.
  God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not
  discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have
  participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons.

Those who love God - those who believe and obey Him - those who trust Him -
will experience trial:

  James 1:12 - Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when
  he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has
  promised to those who love him. (ESV)

I believe strongly that I am currently going through this and I have been
going through this discipline/testing/repentance/forgiving-others stuff for a
year or longer now:

  I Corinthians 11:32 - But when we are judged by the Lord, we are
  disciplined so that we may not be condemned along with the world. (ESV)

We have to believe and obey the Truth. We have to agree with the word of God,
and allow God to correct our beliefs and behaviour:

  John 17:17-19 - Sanctify them in the truth; Your word is truth. As you sent
  me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I
  consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth. (ESV)

I think we can expect God will discipline us to help us to keep the Royal
Law.

Whoever loves with Christ's love knows Father God:

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

4.2.9. Christians should live fulfilling the Royal Law

Those walking (living) according to Jesus' Spirit should be able to do this:

  Romans 8:4 - in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be
  fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the
  Spirit. (ESV)

  James 2:8 - If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture,
  You shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. (ESV)

  Galatians 6:2 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ. (ESV)

  Romans 13:10 - Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the
  fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

  Romans 13:8 - Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one
  who loves another has fulfilled the law. (ESV)

Whoever loves with Christ's love knows Father God:

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

4.2.10. Fulfilling Christ's law is the least we can endeavour to do as an
appropriate response of love for Jesus, Jesus having fulfilled the entire law
and prophets

  John 15:25 - But the word that is written in their Law must be fulfilled:
  They hated me without a cause. (ESV)

  John 18:9 - This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken: Of those whom
  you gave me I have lost not one. (ESV)

  Matthew 26:56 - But all this has taken place that the Scriptures of the
  prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples left him and fled.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 5:17 - Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the
  Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. (ESV)

To love your neighbour as yourself means forgiving them too, and remember
that Jesus forgave us. It also means to not take vengeance (Christ's law
includes not rendering evil for evil):

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

4.3. Following Jesus is the way of righteousness

By faith, we continue to abide in Jesus, believing Him and following Him in
obedience. We do not simply commend ourselves for one act of belief, and then
abandon the way:

  Galatians 5:5 - For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait
  for the hope of righteousness. (ESV)

We have peace with God and are justified by faith when we are following Jesus
Christ who is our Lord. Yes, we have peace because we are following Jesus::

  Romans 5:1 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

"Jesus our Lord" means we are following Jesus. Those who trust in God who
raised Jesus from the dead and follow Jesus will be justified:

  Romans 4:23-25 - But the words it was counted to him were not written for
  his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in
  him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our
  trespasses and raised for our justification. (ESV)

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

OBEDIENCE!

youtube.com: How Faith Obeys

Noah trusts God and builds an ark. Abraham trusts God and leaves his
homeland. Abraham trusts God again and lives in tents instead of building (a
city) city, and Sarah trusts God and conceives when she's old.

The first thing is God; God exists and God speaks. And when He speaks He's
reliable, and we now have something to take hold of in life. If there were no
God, if there were no speaking, there'd be no faith in God, and there'd be no
future for us.

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

4.4. Obey the Truth, obey Jesus. Serve one another through love

Even Paul shows that in obeying Jesus, we walk by the Spirit:

  Galatians 5:13-17 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not
  use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve
  one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch
  out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the
  Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires
  of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are
  against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from
  doing the things you want to do. (ESV)

Walking by the Spirit is being led by the Spirit is being obedient to Jesus.

youtube.com: If We Have the Spirit, Why Commands? Galatians 5:22-26, Part 3
@time: 14 min 38 sec
Don't be conceited. Don't provoke one another. Don't envy, but rather keep in
step with the Spirit and the Spirit will incline you to Christ and who and
enable you to remember that you are justified by faith and not by law-keeping
by which you can show yourself better than somebody. Faith is a great
leveler; It's so humble and dependent and it enables you to see that this
kind of life here is self-exalting which is exactly the opposite of what
walking according to the spirit does because walking according to the holy
spirit is walking in love and love humbles itself to serve others, not exalt
ourselves above them.

Amen, John Piper.

4.4.1. You cannot serve God, and also be yoked to money

Priorities:

• 1. Jesus
• 2-∞. Everything else

  Matthew 6:24 - No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the
  one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the
  other. You cannot serve God and money. (ESV)

  Job 22:24-26 - if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the
  stones of the torrent bed, then the Almighty will be your gold and your
  precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and
  lift up your face to God. (ESV)

God wants us to love Him, treasure Him (25. agapaó), value Him with all our
heart, and love and value and treasure one another (25. agapaó) as ourselves
youtube.com: What Is It Like to Enjoy God? @time: 35 min 16 sec

We should be able to live while having confidence that Jesus is all we need.
The fear of not having enough money should not be stopping us from obeying
God and treasuring God above all things and loving one another as God has
instructed.

  Hebrews 13:5-6 - Keep your life free from love of money, and be content
  with what you have, for he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake
  you. So we can confidently say, The Lord is my helper; I will not fear;
  what can man do to me? (ESV)

You cannot make money master over you:

  Matthew 6:24 - No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the
  one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the
  other. You cannot serve God and money. (ESV)

We must accept Jesus as Master over us:

  Romans 14:4 - Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is
  before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for
  the Lord is able to make him stand. (ESV)

But not only that; We also have to want God, treasure God and love God. And
that means loving Him, treasure Him (25. agapaó), love Him in trust and in
belief and obedience. In order to follow Jesus, sometimes you will have to
sacrifice financial security because there are many people you around you who
need you to lighten their burdens because we value/treasure (25. agapaó)
people more than material/worldly things. Also God may even test you to see
if you love your money more than Him:

  I Peter 4:12 - Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it
  comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to
  you. (ESV)

We should be willing to have our pockets completely emptied as we give mercy
to others and get to the point where we're relying on God alone. We should be
able to do that if it were required of us. We have to root the love of money
out of our own hearts and love God with our whole heart, and trust God who is
our life!

  Luke 12:23 - For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
  (ESV)

  Job 22:24-26 - if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the
  stones of the torrent bed, then the Almighty will be your gold and your
  precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and
  lift up your face to God. (ESV)

youtube.com: JESUS | Full Album | Jesus Image @time: 21 min 58 sec
God You're still good and I thank You for what we do have. We may not have
all that we've been asking for but we thank You that we have everything that
we need because we have You, Jesus!

AMEN!!

  Deuteronomy 30:6 - And the LORD your God will circumcise your heart and the
  heart of your offspring, so that you will love the LORD your God with all
  your heart and with all your soul, that you may live. (ESV)

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

  John 14:15-21 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. Yet a
  little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me.
  Because I live, you also will live. In that day you will know that I am in
  my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has my commandments and
  keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my
  Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. (ESV)

Sermon
Seven Reasons We Must Pursue Supreme Satisfaction in God - YouTube

We must get on the path of having faith in Jesus, believe in the name (onoma)
of Jesus, God's Son, and obey God to have confidence:

  Proverbs 10:17 - Whoever heeds instruction is on the path to life, but he
  who rejects reproof leads others astray. (ESV)

  I John 3:21-22 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. (ESV)

I believe this is really talking about the commandments of Jesus and even of
Father God. I personally believe this includes the 10 Commandments which I
believe are still important for Christians to follow by faith:

  I John 3:21-24 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment,
  that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another,
  just as he has commanded us. Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him,
  and he in them. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit
  whom he has given us. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 1:20 - For all the promises of God find their Yes in him.
  That is why it is through him that we utter our Amen to God for his glory.
  (ESV)

  Hebrews 5:8-10 - Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what
  he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after
  the order of Melchizedek.

We must be yoked to Jesus Christ alone. How? By following His commandments in
reality. If you're not yoked to Jesus then you're susceptible to being yoked
to anything else.

You cannot serve God and cryptocurrency. With money, and with cryptocurrency,
you are making a black and white choice between God and money.

  Matthew 8:22 - And Jesus said to him, Follow me, and leave the dead to bury
  their own dead. (ESV)

  Acts 8:18-21 - Now when Simon saw that the Spirit was given through the
  laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money, saying, Give me
  this power also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy
  Spirit. But Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you, because you
  thought you could obtain the gift of God with money! You have neither part
  nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not right before God.

This widow gave in faith, because she believes God will take care of her even
if she gives everything (that's the mindset of faith):

  Mark 12:41-44 - And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the
  people putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large
  sums. And a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a
  penny. And he called his disciples to him and said to them, Truly, I say to
  you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to
  the offering box. For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she
  out of her poverty has put in everything she had, all she had to live on.
  (ESV)

Following Jesus doesn't mean not providing for family. In fact, following
Jesus does mean providing for family. So when you read Jesus' commandments
and someone asks you for help, you give them what they need, without stealing
though. If the money is for taking care of family, we must keep that. But our
neighbour who we must love are more than just our immediate family. We are
commanded by the Apostle Paul to provide for our family:

  I Timothy 5:8 - But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and
  especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is
  worse than an unbeliever. (ESV)

Following Jesus comes first, even before following your family. To even love
your family best is to put Jesus first. It's for their sake too:

  Matthew 10:36-39 - And a person's enemies will be those of his own
  household. Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me,
  and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And
  whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever
  finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will
  find it. (ESV)

  Mark 8:34 - And he called to him the crowd with his disciples and said to
  them, If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his
  cross and follow me. (ESV)

It's black and white - we must be yoked to Jesus:

  Mark 10:21 - And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, You
  lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you
  will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. (ESV)

The thoughts that go through our minds must not be:

• How can I secure my life here on earth with enough crypto to be taken
care of so I don't have to worry - that type of thinking is emnity
against God. That's making money #1 and Jesus after that.

  James 4:4 - You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the
  world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the
  world makes himself an enemy of God. (ESV)

  John 12:25 - Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in
  this world will keep it for eternal life. (ESV)

The thoughts that go through our minds must be:

• How can I serve God agape-ing God, (valuing and treasuring Him, His name,
His words, His precepts), and agape the light of the glory of God in
Christ, cease to agape the world or the lusts of the world, and help to
bring about the obedience of faith in Christ in other people, and agape
other people. Where can I sow into the Kingdom of God? How can I agape
people and show people that God agape's them, especially the neglected
and needy, like in James 1:27.

  James 1:27 - Religion that is pure and undefiled before God, the Father, is
  this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself
  unstained from the world. (ESV)

  Luke 9:23 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him deny
  himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. (ESV)

  Luke 9:59-62 - To another he said, Follow me. But he said, Lord, let me
  first go and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Leave the dead to bury
  their own dead. But as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God. Yet
  another said, I will follow you, Lord, but let me first say farewell to
  those at my home. Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand to the plow
  and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  Luke 18:22 - When Jesus heard this, he said to him, One thing you still
  lack. Sell all that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have
  treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. (ESV)

You can't follow Jesus Christ's instructions in faith while asking OpenAI if
it's OK. You can not be led by God and be led by an AI such as ChatGPT. You
can not be led by God and be led by a Neuralink chip.

  Matthew 8:22 - And Jesus said to him, Follow me, and leave the dead to bury
  their own dead. (ESV)

We have the Word of God. We can also walk in Jesus' commandments. We've got
to be yoked to Jesus Christ.

God can speak to us directly without internet, even through His Spirit, even
in a dream.

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
  No one comes to the Father except through me. (ESV)

youtube.com: Christ is Enough - Hillsong Worship | LYRIC VIDEO
Christ is enough for me. Everything I need is in You.

4.4.2. Make friends with charity while money hasn't yet failed

Money is temporary. While it's in your hands, make friends with it, by giving
in charity to those in need.

Money will fail - bitcoin will fail, ethereum will fail, and when it fails
people will see you as a friend.

  Luke 16:1-8 - He also said to the disciples, There was a rich man who had a
  manager, and charges were brought to him that this man was wasting his
  possessions. And he called him and said to him, What is this that I hear
  about you? Turn in the account of your management, for you can no longer be
  manager. And the manager said to himself, What shall I do, since my master
  is taking the management away from me? I am not strong enough to dig, and I
  am ashamed to beg. I have decided what to do, so that when I am removed
  from management, people may receive me into their houses. So, summoning his
  master's debtors one by one, he said to the first, How much do you owe my
  master? He said, A hundred measures of oil. He said to him, Take your bill,
  and sit down quickly and write fifty. Then he said to another, And how much
  do you owe? He said, A hundred measures of wheat. He said to him, Take your
  bill, and write eighty. The master commended the dishonest manager for his
  shrewdness. For the sons of this world are more shrewd in dealing with
  their own generation than the sons of light. (ESV)

  Luke 16:8-9 - And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of
  unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails they may receive you into the
  eternal dwellings. (ESV)

4.4.3. In this world God can see if we are to be trusted with true heavenly
wealth by seeing how we used our money

  Luke 16:11-12 - If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous
  wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches? And if you have not been
  faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your
  own?

  I Timothy 6:9-10 - But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation,
  into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people
  into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of
  evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the
  faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. (ESV)

4.4.4. We must actually make following Jesus a reality to take hold of the
eternal life to which we are called

We make the confession, but we must then take hold of it.

  I Timothy 6:11-12 - But as for you, O man of God, flee these things. Pursue
  righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness. Fight the
  good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were
  called and about which you made the good confession in the presence of many
  witnesses. (ESV)

5. Great commission

Obedience to Jesus' commandments (repentance from sin):

  Luke 24:46-47 - and said to them, Thus it is written, that the Christ
  should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance
  (G3341 metanoia) and forgiveness (G859 aphesis) of sins should be
  proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.

Obedience to Jesus' commandments (becoming disciples, obeying Jesus'
commandments):

  Matthew 28:18-20 - And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, “All
  authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and
  make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father
  and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I
  commanded you; and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.”

Keeping the commandments is how to love and Christian's are called to keep
God's commandments

  I Corinthians 7:19 - For neither circumcision counts for anything nor
  uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. (ESV)

We're sure that we abide in Christ when we are keeping His commandments:

  I John 2:1-6 - My little children, I am writing these things to you so that
  you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the
  Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins,
  and not for ours only but also for the sins of the whole world. And by this
  we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments. Whoever
  says I know him but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth
  is not in him, but whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is
  perfected. By this we may be sure that we are in him: whoever says he
  abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked. (ESV)

The word tereo means (to keep, observe, obey, follow). Commandments are for
obeying. That's all they are for. This observance means to remember and
practice. Nowhere in the Bible does it teach to disobey God:

  Matthew 28:20 - teaching them to follow all that I commanded you; and
  behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.” (NASB2020)

Don't teach against needing to do Jesus' commandments. To do so is to teach
people to not be a part of Jesus' family. It's great how God has given us
Hebrew and Greek to make this unambiguous:

  Deuteronomy 5:27 - Go near and hear all that the LORD our God will say and
  speak to us all that the LORD our God will speak to you, and we will hear
  and do it. (ESV)

It's not just the red letters:

  Luke 8:21 - But he answered them, My mother and my brothers are those who
  hear the word of God and do it. (ESV)

Obedience to Jesus' commandments (trusting Jesus and being baptised):

  Mark 16:15-18 - And he said to them, Go into all the world and proclaim the
  gospel to the whole creation. Whoever believes and is baptized will be
  saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned. And these signs will
  accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they
  will speak in new tongues; they will pick up serpents with their hands; and
  if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them; they will lay their
  hands on the sick, and they will recover.

  John 21:15-17 - When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon
  Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him,
  Yes, Lord; you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said
  to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him,
  Yes, Lord; you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said
  to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was
  grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? and he said
  to him, Lord, you know everything; you know that I love you. Jesus said to
  him, Feed my sheep.

The original Apostles were instructed to feed Jesus' sheep with the living
bread that is Jesus Christ. Likewise, in living testimony we should teach
others to walk the way of righteousness:

  John 6:33 - For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives
  life to the world.

Repentance leads to the knowledge of the truth, and ceasing to do the devil's
will:

  II Timothy 2:24-26 - And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but
  kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his
  opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to
  a knowledge of the truth, and they may escape from the snare of the devil,
  after being captured by him to do his will. (ESV)

5.1. Even the Old Testament makes a person wise for salvation through faith in
Christ Jesus:

desiringgod.org: How to Get Wisdom: Become a Fool | Desiring God

Trust and believe:

  Isaiah 53:7-8 - He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not
  his mouth; like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that
  before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. By oppression
  and judgment he was taken away; and as for his generation, who considered
  that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the
  transgression of my people? (ESV)

  Isaiah 53:12 - Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he
  shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to
  death and was numbered with the transgressors; yet he bore the sin of many,
  and makes intercession for the transgressors. (ESV)

Trust and obey:

  II Timothy 3:12-17 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, while evil people and impostors will go on from
  bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. But as for you, continue in
  what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you
  learned it and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred
  writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in
  Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for
  teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,
  that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work. (ESV)

Song
Trust And Obey - Big Daddy Weave - YouTube

5.2. Jesus

Jesus is the Word. The world was made through Jesus:

  John 1:9-11 - The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into
  the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the
  world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not
  receive him. (ESV)

Jesus is the divinely appointed servant of God:

  Isaiah 53:4-6 - Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet
  we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded
  for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the
  chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed. All
  we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way;
  and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. (ESV)

  Matthew 20:27-28 - and whoever would be first among you must be your slave,
  even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his
  life as a ransom for many. (ESV)

He's the image of God:

  Colossians 1:15 - He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of
  all creation. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Let It Be Christ - The Sations

5.3. Belief

Jesus has life in Him, and the life is the Light of men - the true Light.

  John 5:26 - For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the
  Son also to have life in himself.

  John 5:21 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also
  the Son gives life to whom he will.

  John 6:33 - For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives
  life to the world.

  John 1:4 - In Him was life, and the life was the Light of men. (ESV)

  John 1:9 - The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the
  world. (ESV)

  1 John 2:8 - At the same time, it is a new commandment that I am writing to
  you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away
  and the true light is already shining. (ESV)

  John 1:6-7 - There came a man sent from God, whose name was John. He came
  as a witness, to testify about the Light, so that all might believe through
  him.

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life. (ESV)

  John 9:5 - As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. (ESV)

  John 12:36 - While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may
  become sons of light. When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid
  himself from them.

We testify about the Light, so that through our testimony, others might
believe.

  Matthew 5:14 - You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot
  be hidden. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:15 - that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God
  without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among
  whom you shine as lights in the world, (ESV)

  Colossians 1:12 - giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to
  share in the inheritance of the saints in light. (ESV)

  James 1:17 - Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming
  down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow
  due to change. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 5:5 - For you are all children of light, children of the
  day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. (ESV)

To anyone who receives Jesus, even those who believe on His name, Jesus has
given the right to become children of God, to be born of God.

  John 1:11-13 - He came to His own, and those who were His own did not
  receive Him. But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to
  become children of God, even to those who believe (G4100 pisteuo) in His
  name, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the
  will of man, but of God.

  I John 1:6-7 - If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in
  darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the
  light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the
  blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. (ESV)

  I John 2:10 - Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him
  there is no cause for stumbling. (ESV)

Yes, I believe that Jesus can save a person who believes in His name. But He
is the judge, and it is written in John's gospel that no person who remains
disobedient to Jesus Christ will see life, and I believe that.

  Revelation of John 3:8 - I know your works. Behold, I have set before you
  an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little
  power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.

We abide in Jesus when He washes us. When the Holy Spirit washes us, the Holy
Spirit helps us to put sin to death:

  John 13:8 - Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered
  him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. (ESV)

Peter believed/received/obeyed/trusted like a child of God (he cooperated) to
let Jesus wash him but it was Jesus doing the work:

  John 13:9 - Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only but also my
  hands and my head! (ESV)

We call on Jesus to wash us:

  Acts 22:16 - And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away
  your sins, calling on his name. (ESV)

I think Jesus calls us to pursue perfection through following Him, and we
should definitely give it a go:

  John 17:23 - I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one,
  so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you
  loved me.

In God's unconditional love He has paid the price for us to be saved from sin
and death and hell:

  I John 4:9-12 - In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that
  God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. In
  this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his
  Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we
  also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God; if we love one
  another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. (ESV)

We must accept God's love and forgiveness and keep Jesus' word, His
commandments, and God's love will be perfected in us and He and Father God
will make Their abode in us. There is a conditional aspect of God's
unconditional love for us:

  John 14:23-24 - Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my
  word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our
  home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the
  word that you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me. (ESV)

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

  I John 4:15-19 - Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides
  in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to believe the love that
  God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and
  God abides in him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear
  has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in
  love. We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

We aim for perfection / to be made complete / full restoration:

  II Corinthians 13:11 - Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfect, be of good
  comfort, be of one mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace shall
  be with you. (KJV)

  II Corinthians 13:11-14 - Finally, brethren, rejoice, be made complete, be
  comforted, be like-minded, live in peace; and the God of love and peace
  will be with you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the saints greet
  you. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the
  fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with you all. (NASB)

Paul presses on to try to live like Christ, and his rationale is that Jesus
made him (Paul) his own (i.e. Jesus loved him), and Paul loves Jesus back, so
he wants to be obedient out of love for Jesus (I'm convinced that's the
motivation). He wants to be with Jesus.

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

We are transformed into Christ's image from one degree of glory to another:

  II Corinthians 3:18 - And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory
  of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of
  glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. (ESV)

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

  John 15:8 - By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so
  prove to be my disciples. (ESV)

Disciples of Jesus have love for one another, just the same way that Jesus
loved us (with selfless love):

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all
  people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
  (ESV)

Serving Jesus literally looks a lot like serving other people with selfless
love, just as Jesus has practically defined it through His commandments and
His example:

  Matthew 25:40 - And the King will answer them, Truly, I say to you, as you
  did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me. (ESV)

Jesus' teaching is extremely important for Christians to abide in. Jesus'
teaching comes from the same God, Jehovah:

  John 7:16 - So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who
  sent me. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 30:19-20 - I call heaven and earth to witness against you
  today, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse.
  Therefore choose life, that you and your offspring may live, loving the
  LORD your God, obeying his voice and holding fast to him, for he is your
  life and length of days, that you may dwell in the land that the LORD swore
  to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them. (ESV)

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

  I Timothy 6:3-4 - If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree
  with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords
  with godliness, he is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He
  has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about words,
  which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, (ESV)

  Colossians 3:16 - Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and
  admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and
  spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God. (ESV)

I'm pretty convinced that what Jesus means by the following is that by giving
up worldly treasure in the pursuit of Jesus, heavenly treasure is acquired.
I'd say it's likely that the heavenly treasure is simply helping those
people. Selling what a person possesses and giving to the poor is actually
serving Jesus, so doing that is already starting to obediently follow Jesus.

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me.

Jesus' perfect example of patience in mercy towards Paul is to:

• reassure us that we can trust Jesus as we hope for the promise of eternal
life to be received from Him,
• for us to see that trusting in Him, we are loved by God and led by His
love, following Him in patient [endurance] out of a response of love for
Him, trusting in Him, as we receive mercy from Him

  I Timothy 1:16 - But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the
  foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to
  those who were to believe in him for eternal life. (ESV)

We are set free from sin to become slaves of God. The fruit of being a slave
to God leads to sanctification and at its end, eternal life:

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its
  end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God
  is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

  Romans 6:7 - For one who has died has been set free from sin. (ESV)

You are not your own:

  I Corinthians 6:17-20 - But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit
  with him. Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is
  outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own
  body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit
  within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were
  bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. (ESV)

  Romans 13:14 - But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for
  the flesh, to gratify its desires. (ESV)

We must keep ourselves in the love of God by obeying Jesus Christ's
commandments, because we're awaiting to receive eternal life:

  Jude 1:21 - keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of
  our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. (ESV)

Keeping Jesus Christ's commandments is a requirement to inherit eternal life,
not an extra:

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

Whoever truly believes Jesus trusts in and is obedient to Jesus. We must obey
Jesus Christ, and that obedience means being a slave of righteousness,
leading to sanctification, which leads to eternal life:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

I think believing in the Son is also obedience, but it is an act of obedience
which is a gift to us.

It's God's grace that enables us to be saved through faith. While we are
saved exercising obedient, trusting, believing faith, Paul says it was
actually God's doing:

  Ephesians 2:8 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is
  not your own doing; it is the gift of God, (ESV)

  John 6:68 - Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have
  the words of eternal life, (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Show Us Christ - Sovereign Grace

  Romans 10:17 - So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of
  Christ. (ESV)

  John 4:14 - but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never
  be thirsty forever. The water that I will give him will become in him a
  spring of water welling up to eternal life. (ESV)

The word for 'believe' which is used in the New Testament is the verb for
faith and actually means to 'trust':

• In John 3:16, 'Believe' Means More than Believe | by Eric Sentell |
Koinonia | Medium

  The ancient Greek word for “believe” is pisteuó, which derives from
  “belief” or “pistis.” The word “/pistis/” stems from peíthō, to persuade or
  be persuaded.

  The Greek word pisteuó carries connotations of deep trust and confidence.
  It means to believe, to entrust, to have confidence in something.

Have faith in God and have faith in Jesus:

  John 14:1 - “Do not let your heart be troubled; believe (G4100 pisteuo) in
  God, believe (G4100 pisteuo) also in Me.

Pisteuo means to trust. Trust in God, trust also in God's Son Jesus:

  Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts (G4100 pisteuo)
  him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, (ESV)

I think faith is more like hopeful/trusting belief that results in action
(walking by faith).

Examples:

• sailing across the Atlantic to find America.
• obeying Jesus' commandments out of seeking Jesus, or out of belief and
love for Jesus, believing that God sees.

5.4. Fun acronyms

FAITH
Fear aint in this house

BIBLE
Basic instructions before leaving earth

HANDS
honors, attributes, names, deeds, seat

APEST
https://ministryvitals.com/the-5-roles-in-apest/

5.4.1. A H.A.N.D.S. Approach to Showing Jesus is God

Firstly, I understand that Jesus Christ is God in that He is the Son of God,
but that also Jehovah is God. I believe that Jesus Christ is Jehovah in that
He is God the Son, but there is also God the Father:

Proverbs 30:4 and John 3:13-7 talk about God and His Son:

  Proverbs 30:4 - Who has ascended to heaven and come down? Who has gathered
  the wind in his fists? Who has wrapped up the waters in a garment? Who has
  established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and what is his
  son's name? Surely you know! (ESV)

  John 3:13-17 - No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from
  heaven, the Son of Man. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the
  wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in
  him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world, that he gave his
  only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal
  life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but
  in order that the world might be saved through him. (ESV)

  Colossians 2:9-10 - For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily,
  and you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority.
  (ESV)

What reasons do we have for thinking that Jesus is truly God? Robert M.
Bowman Jr. and J. Ed Komoszewski in their book Putting Jesus in His Place:The
Case for the Deity of Christ published by Kregel in 2007, offer a simple and
memorable way to do this. Using the acronym H.A.N.D.S., they reason that the
Bible teaches that Jesus shares the Honour due only to God, that Jesus shares
the Attributes of God, that Jesus shares the Names ascribed to God, that
Jesus does the Deeds that only God can do, and that Jesus is Seated on the
throne of God. Here are a few of the lines of evidence from the Scriptures
that we can draw on.

H - Honour:

Scripture indicates that God alone is to be worshipped:

  Deuteronomy 6:13 - It is the LORD your God you shall fear. Him you shall
  serve and by his name you shall swear. (ESV)

  Matthew 4:9-10 - And he said to him, All these I will give you, if you will
  fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan! For it is
  written, You shall worship the Lord your God and him only shall you serve.
  (ESV)

Yet Jesus is worshipped and accepts such worship:

  Matthew 14:33 - And those in the boat worshiped him, saying, Truly you are
  the Son of God. (ESV)

  Hebrews 1:6 - And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he
  says, Let all God's angels worship him. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 1:17 - When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though
  dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, Fear not, I am the first
  and the last, (ESV)

So who does that mean Jesus truly is? If Jesus were merely human it would be
wrong to honour Him as God alone is to be honoured. Yet, we read that devout
Jews in the New Testament bowed down and worshipped Jesus (i.e. “doubting”
Thomas in John 20:28) and Jesus accepted that worship:

  John 20:28 - Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God! (ESV)

If Jesus were merely human it would be wrong to honour Him as God. Yet devout
Jews in the New Testament bowed down and worshipped Jesus.

A - Attributes:

The Bible tells us that Jesus has the same attributes as God, being eternal:

  John 1:1-3 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made
  through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. (ESV)

all-powerful:

  Matthew 28:18 - And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven
  and on earth has been given to me. (ESV)

all-knowing:

  John 21:17 - He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love
  me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love
  me? and he said to him, Lord, you know everything; you know that I love
  you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. (ESV)

loving:

  Romans 8:35-39 - Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall
  tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or
  danger, or sword? As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all
  the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these
  things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure
  that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor
  things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all
  creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus
  our Lord. (ESV)

If someone possessed the same characteristics, the same nature as God, in the
same way that God did, what would that make Him?

I do recognise that if it wasn't for the salvation which God gives us in His
Son Jesus, God would be against us because of sin. But God, out of His love,
has appeased His own wrath towards those who are saved by Jesus:

  Romans 1:18 - For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all
  ungodliness (763. asebeia) and unrighteousness (93. adikia) of men, who by
  their unrighteousness suppress the truth. (ESV)

  Colossians 3:5-8 - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. In these you too
  once walked, when you were living in them. But now you must put them all
  away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth.
  (ESV)

N - Names:

(Phil. 2:9-11). Jesus is called God (John 20:28), Lord (Acts 1:24), the King
of kings (Rev 19:16), Saviour (Luke 2:11), and the First and the Last (Rev
| 7-8):

Jesus is said to have been given the name that is above every other name:

  Philippians 2:9-11 - Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on
  him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every
  knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every
  tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
  (ESV)

  John 20:28 - Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God! (ESV)

  Acts 1:24 - And they prayed and said, You, Lord, who know the hearts of
  all, show which one of these two you have chosen (ESV)

  Revelation of John 19:16 - On his robe and on his thigh he has a name
  written, King of kings and Lord of lords. (ESV)

  Luke 2:11 - For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior,
  who is Christ the Lord. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 1:7-8 - Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every
  eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all tribes of the earth
  will wail on account of him. Even so. Amen. I am the Alpha and the Omega,
  says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.
  (ESV)

It would be wrong to call any older man our father, so if Jesus receives such
titles, that is saying a lot about who He is:

  Isaiah 9:6 - For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the
  government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called
  Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. (ESV)

D - Deeds:

All things were made through Him:

  John 1:3 - All things were made through him, and without him was not any
  thing made that was made. (ESV)

The sustainer of all things:

  Hebrews 1:2-3 - but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom
  he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the
  world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his
  nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making
  purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on
  high, (ESV)

He is sovereign over the forces of nature:

  Matthew 8:23-27 - And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed
  him. And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was
  being swamped by the waves; but he was asleep. And they went and woke him,
  saying, Save us, Lord; we are perishing. And he said to them, Why are you
  afraid, O you of little faith? Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the
  sea, and there was a great calm. And the men marveled, saying, What sort of
  man is this, that even winds and sea obey him? (ESV)

He is the one who forgives sins:

  Matthew 9:1-8 - And getting into a boat he crossed over and came to his own
  city. And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed.
  And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Take heart, my
  son; your sins are forgiven. And behold, some of the scribes said to
  themselves, This man is blaspheming. But Jesus, knowing their thoughts,
  said, Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier, to say,
  Your sins are forgiven, or to say, Rise and walk? But that you may know
  that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins — he then said
  to the paralytic—Rise, pick up your bed and go home. And he rose and went
  home. When the crowds saw it, they were afraid, and they glorified God, who
  had given such authority to men. (ESV)

He is one who gives life:

  John 1:4 - In him was life, and the life was the light of men. (ESV)

  John 5:21 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also
  the Son gives life to whom he will. (ESV)

In fact it could be said that everything that God does for us, Jesus does for
us. How should one respond to such blessings?

S - Seat:

Jesus sits on God’s throne:

  Revelation of John 3:21 - The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit
  with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on
  his throne. (ESV)

Jesus is ruling over all things:

  Revelation of John 5:13 - And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth
  and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, To him
  who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and
  might forever and ever! (ESV)

This is nothing short of claiming to be equal with God:

  John 10:27-33 - My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
  me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will
  snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater
  than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and
  the Father are one. The Jews picked up stones again to stone him. Jesus
  answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which
  of them are you going to stone me? The Jews answered him, It is not for a
  good work that we are going to stone you but for blasphemy, because you,
  being a man, make yourself God. (ESV)

Jesus is the judge of all history, of the entire world, of each person – to
Him every knee will bow. Just as Buckingham Palace is the residence of the
Queen, so the one who reigns sovereignly from heaven can be none other than
the God of gods.

5.5. Our obedient faith should be penitent, and should be without partiality. We
aim for perfection, to be conformed to Christ's image

  John Piper - "Faith is the baking our hope on the mercy of God."

Obeying Jesus should be impartial:

  James 2:1 - My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our
  Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. (ESV)

  John Piper - "Mercy means that our obedience doesn't have to be perfect, it
  has to be penitent."

Sermon
youtube.com: God's Delight in Obedience @time: 24 min 19 sec

  II Corinthians 13:11 - Finally, brethren, rejoice, be made complete, be
  comforted, be like-minded, live in peace; and the God of love and peace
  will be with you. (NASB)

  II Corinthians 13:11 - Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfect, be of good
  comfort, be of one mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace shall
  be with you. (KJV)

  II Corinthians 13:11-14 - Finally, brothers, rejoice. Aim for restoration,
  comfort one another, agree with one another, live in peace; and the God of
  love and peace will be with you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. All
  the saints greet you. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of
  God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. (ESV)

5.5.1. Faith is not merely belief, but faith is walking as Abraham did -
believing and obedient

Obedience to God is faith. Abraham went to live in the land of promise by
obedience:

  Genesis 12:1-8 - Now the LORD said to Abram, Go from your country and your
  kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I
  will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name
  great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you,
  and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the
  earth shall be blessed. So Abram went, as the LORD had told him, and Lot
  went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from
  Haran. And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all
  their possessions that they had gathered, and the people that they had
  acquired in Haran, and they set out to go to the land of Canaan. When they
  came to the land of Canaan, Abram passed through the land to the place at
  Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. At that time the Canaanites were in the land.
  Then the LORD appeared to Abram and said, To your offspring I will give
  this land. So he built there an altar to the LORD, who had appeared to him.
  From there he moved to the hill country on the east of Bethel and pitched
  his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. And there he built an
  altar to the LORD and called upon the name of the LORD. (ESV)

Hebrews 11:9 says that Abraham went to live in the land of promise by faith:

  Hebrews 11:9 - By faith he went to live in the land of promise, as in a
  foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the
  same promise. (ESV)

Disbelief causes disobedience. Disbelief caused the Israelites to not walk in
obedience:

  Hebrews 3:16-19 - For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not
  all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for
  forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the
  wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest,
  but to those who were disobedient? So we see that they were unable to enter
  because of unbelief. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:13 - though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and
  insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in
  unbelief, (ESV)

By unrighteousness and ungodliness, people suppress the Truth of God:

  Romans 1:17-18 - For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith
  for faith, as it is written, The righteous shall live by faith. For the
  wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness (763. asebeia)
  and unrighteousness (93. adikia) of men, who by their unrighteousness
  suppress the truth. (ESV)

When people give up the Truth of God and suppress the Truth of God, then God
gives them over to destruction:

  Romans 1:19-25 - For what can be known about God is plain to them, because
  God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal
  power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived, ever since the
  creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they are
  without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God
  or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their
  foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and
  exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man
  and birds and animals and reptiles. Therefore God gave them up in the lusts
  of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among
  themselves, because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and
  worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed
  forever! Amen. (ESV)

We love God and God's power through His Spirit helps us to serve Him to do
works that are pleasing to Him:

  II Timothy 3:1-5 - But understand this, that in the last days there will
  come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of
  money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful,
  unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal,
  not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of
  pleasure rather than lovers of God (5377. philotheos), having the
  appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people. (ESV)

Paul taught that we accept God's forgiveness for our sins by placing our
trusting faith in Jesus, paid Jesus' blood. God cleans our heart. And out of
a pure heart and good conscience and sincere faith we love God and one
another:

  I Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart
  and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

While our good works can't make atonement for our sin, we are sanctified by
Jesus' blood as we hold fast to the Truth and are corrected by and believe
the Truth when we hear it and as we obey Righteousness (Jesus, the Truth).
The Truth is the Word of God. Be believe and obey Jesus and we are sanctified
in the Truth as we believe and obey Jesus. We must still be granted
forgiveness from God. We know that anyone who places their trust in Jesus
receives this forgiveness:

  Hebrews 9:22 - Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with
  blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.
  (ESV)

God judges very fairly, but we must not reject Jesus:

  John 12:48 - The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
  judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. (ESV)

God judges very fairly. He judges the hearts of all people. Christians should
naturally serve and obey Jesus as they hold their faith in Jesus. The gospel
of Jesus is the power of salvation to all that believe/trust/obey:

  Romans 2:1-16 - Therefore you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who
  judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself, because
  you, the judge, practice the very same things. We know that the judgment of
  God rightly falls on those who do such things. Do you suppose, O man—you
  who judge those who do such things and yet do them yourself—that you will
  escape the judgment of God? Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness
  and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to
  lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and impenitent heart you
  are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous
  judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his
  works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and
  immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking
  and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath
  and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who
  does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor and peace
  for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows
  no partiality. For all who have sinned without the law will also perish
  without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by
  the law. For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God,
  but the doers of the law who will be justified. For when Gentiles, who do
  not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to
  themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the work
  of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears
  witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them on that
  day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ
  Jesus. (ESV)

We still need to accept forgiveness from God that our sins are forgiven. We
can't reject the forgiveness of God. We need God's forgiveness:

  Romans 4:7-10 - Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not
  count his sin. Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised.
  (ESV)

Therefore we must trust Jesus, trust in Jesus, receive Jesus Christ Son of
God as our Lord and Saviour:

  Acts 10:43: Of Him all the prophets bear witness that through His name
  everyone who believes in Him receives forgiveness of sins."

Once again, we must not reject Jesus:

  Hebrews 3:15-19 - As it is said, Today, if you hear his voice, do not
  harden your hearts as in the rebellion. For who were those who heard and
  yet rebelled? Was it not all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with
  whom was he provoked for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned,
  whose bodies fell in the wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they
  would not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient? So we see that
  they were unable to enter because of unbelief. (ESV)

We hear the gospel, and we receive salvation through faith. Reaching it is a
journey of applied faith:

  Hebrews 4:1-2 - Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still
  stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it.
  For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did
  not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who
  listened. (ESV)

The rest goes to the one who takes Jesus' yoke and learns from Him. Obedience
to Jesus will result in finding rest for your soul:

  Matthew 11:28-29 - Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I
  will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am
  gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. (ESV)

The rest goes to those who have believed. Believing in Jesus is obedience to
the gospel:

Hebrews 4:3 Interlinear: for we do enter into the rest – we who did believe,
as He said, 'So I sware in My anger, If they shall enter into My rest – ;'
and yet the works were done from the foundation of the world,

  Hebrews 4:3 - For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, As
  I swore in my wrath, They shall not enter my rest, although his works were
  finished from the foundation of the world.

We work then find rest:

  Revelation of John 14:13 - And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write
  this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed,
  says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds
  follow them! (ESV)

That rest looks like living for the will of God:

  I Peter 4:1-2 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the
  flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the
  flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. (ESV)

The demons have belief, but they don't have a response of love towards God:

  James 2:19 - You believe that God is one; you do well. Even the demons
  believe—and shudder! (ESV)

Jesus was and is obedient to Father God:

  John 6:38 - For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will but the
  will of him who sent me. (ESV)

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

Jesus loves Father God. Jesus obeyed God with perfect self-humbling obedience
so that the world may know that He loves Father God:

  John 14:31 - but I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may
  know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here. (ESV)

  John 8:44 - You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your
  father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to
  do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he
  speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
  (ESV)

In response to forgiveness, we must love:

  Luke 7:47 - Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are
  forgiven—for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.
  (ESV)

He loved us first, and that is why and how we love (knowing we've already
received mercy). Christ's love is not simply charity but a) it's
passing-forward Christ's love, and b) it's to relieve other's burdens (mercy,
not sacrifice):

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

  John 15:9-13 - As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my
  love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I
  have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I
  have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be
  full. This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved
  you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his life for
  his friends. (ESV)

  Acts 2:45 - And they were selling their possessions and belongings and
  distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need. (ESV)

We should have a loving response to God for Him having saved us. It certainly
appears that not having a loving/obedient/thankful response to God for His
mercy, we may miss out on 'entering into the joy of our master':

  Matthew 25:23 - His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful
  servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much.
  Enter into the joy of your master. (ESV)

Our response might be a positive response of proclaiming to others how much
God has done for them - giving God the glory:

  Luke 8:39 - Return to your home, and declare how much God has done for you.
  And he went away, proclaiming throughout the whole city how much Jesus had
  done for him. (ESV)

We must have a response of love for Jesus:

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

So we want to have a response of love for Jesus:

  Luke 12:48 - But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating,
  will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much
  will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will
  demand the more. (ESV)

As a husband loves his wife, so Jesus loves us. As a wife respects her
husband, so must the members of Christ's body respect Christ:

  Ephesians 5:30-33 - because we are members of his body. Therefore a man
  shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two
  shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it
  refers to Christ and the church. However, let each one of you love his wife
  as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. (ESV)

Jesus is so generous that He saves people who turn out to be unthankful, but
we should definitely love Jesus as a response. This story should be taken not
only to see how Good God is, but also taken as a warning against
unthankfulness:

  Luke 17:11-19 - On the way to Jerusalem he was passing along between
  Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers,
  who stood at a distance and lifted up their voices, saying, Jesus, Master,
  have mercy on us. When he saw them he said to them, Go and show yourselves
  to the priests. And as they went they were cleansed. Then one of them, when
  he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice; and
  he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a
  Samaritan. Then Jesus answered, Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine?
  Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner?
  And he said to him, Rise and go your way; your faith has made you well.
  (ESV)

We must know that God loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for
our sins. We must believe:

  I John 4:10 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved
  us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.

We must obey:

  II John 1:5-6 - And now I ask you, dear lady—not as though I were writing
  you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning—that we
  love one another. And this is love, that we walk according to his
  commandments; this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the
  beginning, so that you should walk in it. (ESV)

  Acts 5:29 - But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather
  than men. (ESV)

We must obey Jesus and love one another:

  I Corinthians 16:22 - If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be
  accursed. Our Lord, come! (ESV)

  Luke 6:46-48 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  (ESV)

The knowledge comes from having obeyed God's voice. Love becomes perfected in
us when we abide in God:

  I John 4:15-17 - Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides
  in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to believe the love that
  God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and
  God abides in him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world.

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

  John 8:55 - But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I
  do not know him, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and I keep
  his word. (ESV)

In order to know God we must love one another in the way that God has loved
us:

  I John 4:7-12 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love
  does not know God, because God is love. In this the love of God was made
  manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we
  might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God but
  that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
  Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has
  ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is
  perfected in us. (ESV)

5.5.2. Joy and obedience - we want both of them at the same time

John Piper stresses that although obeying sin steals your joy, making Jesus
your Pearl of Great Price makes it much easier to forsake sin.

youtube.com: What Comes First: My Obedience to Jesus or My Joy in Jesus?

When we are living in disobedience to Christ our joy in him will be minimal
or non-existent depending on the depth and duration of the disobedience.

By all means forsake bad behaviors but mainly the battle is look to Jesus
look to all that God is for you in him and pray for eyes to see his all
satisfying beauty and worth so that you rest in him and are so satisfied that
the root of sin is severed and you walk in obedience.

I personally believe that joy comes from having been given and maintaining a
good conscience with God.

  II Corinthians 1:12 - For our boast is this: the testimony of our
  conscience that we behaved in the world with simplicity and godly
  sincerity, not by earthly wisdom but by the grace of God, and supremely so
  toward you. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 16:13-14 - Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like
  men, be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. (ESV)

johnrasicci.wordpress.com: JOY FROM A CLEAR CONSCIENCE | John Rasicci

We cannot deceive ourselves either by simply proclaiming we are the
righteousness of God in Christ while living in sin.

There is a difference in claiming to be the righteousness of God in Christ (2
Corinthians 5:21) and actually living righteously (Titus 2:12; also called
the fruits of righteousness Philippians 1:11).

The former speaks of our spiritual position in Christ by the grace of God but
the latter speaks of our practice, the obedience of our faith, our behavior,
and our actual daily conduct.

Our position was by the work of Jesus; our practice is by our work.

God sees both our position in Christ and our practice (Hebrews 4:13). Calvary
didn’t blind God.

  I Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart
  and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:3 - I thank God whom I serve, as did my ancestors, with a
  clear conscience, as I remember you constantly in my prayers night and day.
  (ESV)

I also affirm the Didache here which shows that the upwards-call of the
Christian absolutely involves making earthly sacrifices as we serve Jesus,
and there are degrees of glory as we are conformed to Jesus' image:

  Didache Chapter 6 - See that no one causes you to err from this way of the
  Teaching, since apart from God it teaches you. For if you are able to bear
  the entire yoke of the Lord, you will be perfect; but if you are not able
  to do this, do what you are able.

Now from John Piper:

  I'm dealing with the issue of God's glory and our gladness. Can they really
  be one? And I'm doing that under the bigger banner of "How can I spread a
  passion for the supremacy of God?" because I think that phrase "passion for
  the supremacy of God" pulls together the two things:

   1. "passion" signifies "I'm joyful" and
   2. "supremacy of God" signifies "he's being magnified".

  So my biggest longing in life is to be used by God to help people see him
  for who he really is in his magnificence, and then have emotions that are
  appropriate to that magnificence. Why do we watch the World Series? Why do
  we watch gymnastics when the Olympics rolls around? Why do we go to the
  Grand Canyon? Why do we go to the Alps? Why do we go to the ocean and look
  out over… Why do we want to get near bigness and beauty and magnificence
  and excellence? It's because that's what we were made for. We were not made
  for mirrors. So I want to be absolutely candid, the Christian Life Is War
  and I'm in the business of helping people know how to fight in the way that
  they're supposed to, namely for joy.

  There's a text in 2 Corinthians 1:24:

  II Corinthians 1:24 - Not that we lord it over your faith, but we work with
  you for your joy, for you stand firm in your faith. (ESV)

  I was amazed when I saw that. Paul says "I'm a worker for your joy" as
  though Joy requires apostolic work, and if it does for him it does for me.
  And so yeah there are times in the ministerial life or the Christian Life
  when we're low. It seems like all the joy is gone we want to quit give up
  the ministry give up the faith, and at those moments we need to fight like
  heaven to hold on.

Sermon
youtube.com: Sustaining Joy in Christ

I believe that the freedom we have in Christ is for serving Jesus, and we
have a heavenly perspective:

  Colossians 3:22-25 - Slaves, obey in everything those who are your earthly
  masters, not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity
  of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord
  and not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the
  inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. For the
  wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no
  partiality. (ESV)

5.5.3. We are bought with the precious blood of Christ and we should be
obedient to God

  I Peter 1:17-19 - And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially
  according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the
  time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways
  inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver
  or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without
  blemish or spot. (ESV)

Faith that from a good conscience with God produces Christ's love:

  I Corinthians 16:13-14 - Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like
  men, be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart
  and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

5.5.4. Eternal salvation goes to those who obey Him

  Hebrews 5:9 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him,

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

If you keep Jesus' commandments then the Spirit of Truth will come to you,
and help you, and be in you. If we obey Jesus, the Holy Spirit helps us, even
before He's inside us:

  John 14:15-17 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. (ESV)

The above definitely indicates that we should try to keep Jesus Christ's
commandments even before receiving the Holy Spirit.

We receive of God's Spirit. That is how we know we abide in Him:

  I John 4:13 - By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he
  has given us of his Spirit. (ESV)

5.5.5. Faith in Jesus Christ's name to be saved

  Acts 4:12 - And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other
  name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. (ESV)

It's faith in Jesus' name that is powerful, and it's with faith in Jesus'
name that we are saved.

We are granted repentance to life; being a slave to righteousness leading to
sanctification and at its end, eternal life. We expect to receive salvation
as we have faith in Jesus Christ:

  Romans 3:21-25 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins.

AMEN!!

Something like this:

  I Thessalonians 1:3 - remembering before our God and Father your work of
  faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.
  (ESV)

  Acts 3:2-9 - And a man lame from birth was being carried, whom they laid
  daily at the gate of the temple that is called the Beautiful Gate to ask
  alms of those entering the temple. Seeing Peter and John about to go into
  the temple, he asked to receive alms. And Peter directed his gaze at him,
  as did John, and said, Look at us. And he fixed his attention on them,
  expecting to receive something from them. But Peter said, I have no silver
  and gold, but what I do have I give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ of
  Nazareth, rise up and walk! And he took him by the right hand and raised
  him up, and immediately his feet and ankles were made strong. And leaping
  up he stood and began to walk, and entered the temple with them, walking
  and leaping and praising God. And all the people saw him walking and
  praising God,

  Acts 3:16 - And his name—by faith in his name—has made this man strong whom
  you see and know, and the faith that is through Jesus has given the man
  this perfect health in the presence of you all.

  Acts 4:7-10 - And when they had set them in the midst, they inquired, By
  what power or by what name did you do this? Then Peter, filled with the
  Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders, if we are being
  examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what means
  this man has been healed, let it be known to all of you and to all the
  people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you
  crucified, whom God raised from the dead—by him this man is standing before
  you well.

  Acts 4:12 - And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other
  name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.

Keep God's word:

  John 17:6 - I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out
  of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept
  your word. (ESV)

Keeping God's word given through Jesus, having God's name revealed:

  John 17:6 - I have revealed (G5319 phaneroó) Your name (G3686 onoma) to
  those You have given Me out of the world. They were Yours; You gave them to
  Me, and they have kept Your word. (engbsb2020eb)

G5319 phaneroó
Definition: To make manifest, to reveal, to make known, to show openly.
Meaning: I make clear (visible, manifest), make known. Word Origin: From the
Greek word φανερός (phaneros), meaning "visible" or "manifest."

Be convinced and keep having and doing faith in Jesus Christ. John uses the
verb for faith:

  John 20:31 - but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is
  the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his
  name. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: His Voice in Yours: How Christ Wins the World @time: 12 min 52
sec

  Jeremiah 23:5-6 - Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I
  will raise up for David a righteous Branch, and he shall reign as king and
  deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. In
  his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is
  the name by which he will be called: The LORD is our righteousness. (ESV)

5.6. By God's grace God has saved us and provided us with a means to be
reconciled to Him through trusting faith in Him

God has called us out of darkness and into His marvelous light:

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation,
  a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of
  him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. (ESV)

Saving faith does come (originate) from hearing through the word of Christ:

  Romans 10:17 - So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of
  Christ. (ESV)

I believe that saving faith must arrive and settle in the heart, and as the
heart is made clean, a person's outside changes:

  Matthew 23:26 - You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and
  the plate, that the outside also may be clean. (ESV)

There are some doctrines that are so essential that to deny them is to not be
a Christian:

  I John 4:2 - By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that
  confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, (ESV)

  I John 2:22 - Who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ?
  This is the antichrist, he who denies the Father and the Son. (ESV)

  II John 1:7 - For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do
  not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the
  deceiver and the antichrist. (ESV)

I confess that God was acting through Jesus Christ of Nazareth as He walked
the earth in the flesh, around 2000 years ago, and that God is still working
through us who are in Christ Jesus.

  John 10:32 - Jesus answered them, “I showed you many good works from the
  Father; for which of them are you stoning Me?”

I also think it's important to have an accurate Christology:

  Luke 24:25-27 - And he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to
  believe all that the prophets have spoken! Was it not necessary that the
  Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? And beginning
  with Moses and all the Prophets, he interpreted to them in all the
  Scriptures the things concerning himself. (ESV)

While I believe that it is central to the gospel that Jesus was raised from
the dead, the object of our faith should be Jesus Himself and we should trust
Jesus to believe and obey Him - teachings included. We believe the Word of
God: We believe Jesus and we believe in Jesus Himself, and we believe the
Holy Scriptures which say Jesus was raised from the dead, and we should get a
clearer picture of Jesus as we follow Him.

  I Corinthians 15:17 - And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is
  futile and you are still in your sins. (ESV)

  Luke 24:44-48 - Then he said to them, These are my words that I spoke to
  you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the Law
  of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. Then he opened
  their minds to understand the Scriptures, and said to them, Thus it is
  written, that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the
  dead, and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in
  his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. You are witnesses of
  these things. (ESV)

Let's not focus on minimums, but maximums:

Sermon
youtube.com: How Much Error Can I Believe and Still Be Saved?

We must also accept that Jesus Christ, God's Only-Begotten Son was raised
from the dead:

  I Corinthians 15:14-17 - And if Christ has not been raised, then our
  preaching is in vain and your faith is in vain. We are even found to be
  misrepresenting God, because we testified about God that he raised Christ,
  whom he did not raise if it is true that the dead are not raised. For if
  the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has
  not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins. (ESV)

  Luke 24:24-27 - Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found
  it just as the women had said, but him they did not see. And he said to
  them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets
  have spoken! Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these
  things and enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the
  Prophets, he interpreted to them in all the Scriptures the things
  concerning himself. (ESV)

  Romans 10:9 - because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord
  and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be
  saved. (ESV)

We should definitely confess Jesus to others:

  Luke 12:8-9 - And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the
  Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God, but the one who
  denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. (ESV)

I believe that trusting Jesus and obedience in the heart towards Jesus is
required. Obedience to Jesus is love.

  I Corinthians 13:13 - So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but
  the greatest of these is love.

5.7. Receiving Jesus

5.7.1. Receiving Jesus may be as easy as receiving the one who He sends, or
receiving a child in His name

  John 13:20 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send
  receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me.

  Mark 9:37 - Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, and
  whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent me.

A person may need to ask and seek to receive Jesus:

  Luke 11:10 - For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds,
  and to the one who knocks it will be opened.

5.7.2. Receive Jesus and His words, and then put to death the deeds of the body

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (ESV)

  Romans 8:13-25 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but
  if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For
  all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not
  receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received
  the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba! Father! The Spirit
  himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God, and if
  children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we
  suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. For I
  consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing
  with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with
  eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was
  subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it,
  in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to decay
  and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know
  that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of
  childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have
  the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for
  adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were
  saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees?
  But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience.

5.7.3. God through His mercy saves us. We should respond well

Christ died for us, so through His mercy alone, he purchased us.

  Ephesians 1:13-14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:4 - But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love
  with which he loved us, (ESV)

  I John 4:10 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved
  us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. (ESV)

5.7.4. Those who have a heart of faith towards Him (and anyone who He wills)
may receive forgiveness of sins through his name

It's impossible for man to save himself:

  Matthew 19:25-26 - When the disciples heard this, they were greatly
  astonished, saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and
  said, With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.
  (ESV)

Anyone God wills He may forgive and make clean:

  Matthew 8:1-3 - When he came down from the mountain, great crowds followed
  him. And behold, a leper came to him and knelt before him, saying, Lord, if
  you will, you can make me clean. And Jesus stretched out his hand and
  touched him, saying, I will; be clean. And immediately his leprosy was
  cleansed. (ESV)

  Matthew 9:5-8 - For which is easier, to say, Your sins are forgiven, or to
  say, Rise and walk? But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority
  on earth to forgive sins — he then said to the paralytic—Rise, pick up your
  bed and go home. And he rose and went home. When the crowds saw it, they
  were afraid, and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men.
  (ESV)

We certainly must trust in the name of the Only-Begotten Son of God if we
want to be born of God:

  John 1:12-13 - But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he
  gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor
  of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God. (ESV)

An heart of faith looks like:

• Wanting to do God's will
• Obedience and repentance from sin: even if it just means wanting to
turn from sin
• because God makes the new heart to enable the person to obey
• Wanting to follow Jesus
• Accepting Jesus Christ as one's Lord
• Accepting through faith the atonement for sin through Jesus Christ
• Turning away from sin

Return to obedience to God through obedience to Jesus. Turn from sin:

  Joel 2:12-13 - Yet even now, declares the LORD, return to me with all your
  heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning; and rend your hearts
  and not your garments. Return to the LORD, your God, for he is gracious and
  merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love; and he relents
  over disaster. (ESV)

God provides the new heart, and God works through us:

  Ezekiel 11:19-20 - And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will
  put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give
  them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules
  and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. (ESV)

So to be saved a person must have an obedient heart, prepared for the good
works which are prepared for us to walk in:

  Ephesians 2:8-10 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus
  for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation,
  a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of
  him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. (ESV)

The tax collector here has an obedient heart (yielding to Jesus), but the
Pharisee in the story has a self-righteous heart:

  Luke 18:9-14 - He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves
  that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt: Two men went up
  into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The
  Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: God, I thank you that I am not
  like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax
  collector. I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get. But the
  tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven,
  but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner! I tell you,
  this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For
  everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles
  himself will be exalted.his house justified, rather than the other._ For
  everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles
  himself will be exalted.

It's those that believe in him (trust Him, receive Him, expect to receive
Him, have an obedient heart towards Him) that receive forgiveness of sins
through his name:

  Acts 10:41-44 - not to all the people but to us who had been chosen by God
  as witnesses, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. And
  he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one
  appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead. To him all the
  prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives
  forgiveness of sins through his name. While Peter was still saying these
  things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word. (ESV)

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.

We must honour Jesus Christ in our bodies and in our lives - fruitful labour,
so that we can be confident with John 5:24. AMEN!! We must be slaves of
righteousness, leading to sanctification, which at its end is eternal life:

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and
  believes (G4100 pisteuo) him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come
  (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed from death to life.

I believe John 5:24 is a true statement and that it should not be read
outside of the words Jesus said directly before it (Whoever does not honor
the Son does not honor the Father who sent him).

We do not nullify the rest of what Jesus has commanded of and asked of us. If
Jesus is your judge, then I think it's wise to take on board the rest of what
Jesus has said:

  Philippians 1:15-22 - Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but
  others from good will. The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put
  here for the defense of the gospel. The former proclaim Christ out of
  rivalry, not sincerely but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment. What
  then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is
  proclaimed, and in that I rejoice. Yes, and I will rejoice, for I know that
  through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ this will
  turn out for my deliverance, as it is my eager expectation and hope that I
  will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now as always Christ
  will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. For to me to live
  is Christ, and to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means
  fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose I cannot tell.

Paul and the other faithful Apostles were exhibited as last of all, like men
sentenced to death for following Jesus:

  I Corinthians 4:9-13 - For I think that God has exhibited us apostles as
  last of all, like men sentenced to death, because we have become a
  spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men. We are fools for Christ's
  sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are
  held in honor, but we in disrepute. To the present hour we hunger and
  thirst, we are poorly dressed and buffeted and homeless, and we labor,
  working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we
  endure; when slandered, we entreat. We have become, and are still, like the
  scum of the world, the refuse of all things. (ESV)

God still makes apostles and prophetic people:

  Ephesians 4:11-16 - And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the
  evangelists, the pastors and teachers, to equip the saints for the work of
  ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the
  unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature
  manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that
  we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried
  about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in
  deceitful schemes. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in
  every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole body,
  joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when
  each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself
  up in love. (ESV)

Paul was an apostle of Christ Jesus by God's command:

  I Timothy 1:1-2 - Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by command of God our
  Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope, To Timothy, my true child in the
  faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our
  Lord. (ESV)

I myself, after being born-again, have had visions of planting churches in
the South Pacific. However, to make this more complicated, I've also been
going through daily testing and refinement on doctrine, etc. as the Holy
Spirit has been teaching me and sanctifying me with the Word.

  An apostle, in its literal sense, is an emissary. The word is derived from
  Ancient Greek ἀπόστολος, literally "one who is sent off", itself derived
  from the verb ἀποστέλλειν, "to send off".

I've also had a vision of a star rising in a purple sky (like a morning
sunrise), and many other such prophetic visions - anyway, my point is the
'prophetic' is a reality, and we believe in a living God, and we believe in
the Holy Spirit:

  II Peter 1:19 - And we have something more sure, the prophetic word, to
  which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark
  place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts, (ESV)

I believe that cessationists are in error. Modern-day apostles, I believe,
like branches on a tree, still branch from the original Apostles, and should
preach the same Jesus, and the same gospel, in the same Spirit, and any
apostle must have Jesus as their cornerstone:

  Matthew 7:14-20 - For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie. narrow, small)
  and the way is hard (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when circumstances "rub us
  the wrong way" that make us feel confined (hemmed in); restricted to a
  "narrow" place) that leads to life, and those who find it are few. Beware
  of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are
  ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes
  gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? So, every healthy tree
  bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree
  cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree
  that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus
  you will recognize them by their fruits. (ESV)

youtube.com: An Apostle by Command: 1 Timothy 1:1-2, Part 1 @time: 8 min 0
sec
Paul claims extraordinary authority. Here's what he says in 1 Corinthians 14.
If anyone thinks that he's a prophet or spiritual (in other words, if
somebody claims to be speaking for God or in the spirit) he should
acknowledge that the things that I as apostle am writing to you are a command
of the Lord. If anyone does not recognize this, he's not recognized. In other
words, Paul claims that his authority trumps vaunted claims to prophecy or
spirituality. If you don't recognize the authority of the Apostle, you're not
recognized.

  Ephesians 2:19-20 - So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you
  are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God,
  built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself
  being the cornerstone, (ESV)

We have the opportunity to receive correction from God and make the tree good
and its fruit good:

  Matthew 12:33-35 - Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make
  the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. You
  brood of vipers! How can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the
  abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. The good person out of his good
  treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure
  brings forth evil. (ESV)

I believe Jesus still appoints apostles, and I'm prophetic myself so I have
no doubts regarding this. I personally still see all things being placed into
subjection under Christ and have no reason to think that Jesus has stopped
appointing apostles and prophets as God is growing and guiding His church:

  Ephesians 2:20-22 - built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets,
  Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure,
  being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you
  also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit.
  (ESV)

I think a good reason Jesus would still be doing this is for sake of the
unity of the church, and demonstration of the Spirit and power of God. We
need the prophetic in the church:

  1 Corinthians 2:4,5 - and my speech and my message were not in plausible
  words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your
  faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of God. (ESV)

  Proverbs 29:18 - Where there is no prophetic vision the people cast off
  restraint, but blessed is he who keeps the law. (ESV)

youtube.com: A stern warning to spiritually equip yourself for this end time.
{@TorchofChristMinistries}

From our perspective it may look like things are still being brought into
subjection to Him. It still looks that way to me:

  Ephesians 1:22 - And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head
  over all things to the church,

  Hebrews 2:5-8 - Now it was not to angels that God subjected the world to
  come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere, What is
  man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you care for him?
  You made him for a little while lower than the angels; you have crowned him
  with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now
  in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his
  control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him.

Anyway, I am very confident that God still makes apostles and I know the
'prophetic' is a reality. God certainly still appoints people with spiritual
gifts and is still working on the earth through people in the power of the
Holy Spirit. Cessationists are quite simply incorrect.

However apostolic and prophetic people have the truth revealed to them. These
roles are service roles though for helping the body of Christ grow in the
knowledge of the Son of God, so there's no bragging, just serving one
another, as we have different roles in the body of Christ:

  Ephesians 3:5 - which was not made known to the sons of men in other
  generations as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets
  by the Spirit. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 2:4 - and my speech and my message were not in plausible
  words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, (ESV)

I'll let the Didache speak for itself here
But not every one who speaks in the Spirit is a prophet but only if he holds
the ways of the Lord. Therefore from their ways shall the false prophet and
the prophet be known. And every prophet who orders a meal in the Spirit does
not eat it, unless he is indeed a false prophet. And every prophet who
teaches the truth, but does not do what he teaches, is a false prophet. And
every prophet, proved true, working unto the mystery of the Church in the
world, yet not teaching others to do what he himself does, shall not be
judged among you, for with God he has his judgment for so did also the
ancient prophets. But whoever says in the Spirit, Give me money, or something
else, you shall not listen to him. But if he tells you to give for others'
sake who are in need, let no one judge him.

Also, this seems relevant:

  Matthew 11:11 - Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has
  arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in
  the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. (ESV)

But we should listen to sound teaching first and always test the spirits:

  II Timothy 4:3 - For the time is coming when people will not endure sound
  teaching, but having itching ears they will accumulate for themselves
  teachers to suit their own passions, (ESV)

  Daniel 2:28 - but there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries, and he
  has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar what will be in the latter days. Your
  dream and the visions of your head as you lay in bed are these: (ESV)

God is loving and altogether gracious:

  Exodus 34:5-8 - The Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there,
  and proclaimed the name of the Lord. The Lord passed before him and
  proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger,
  and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love
  for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will
  by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the
  children and the children's children, to the third and the fourth
  generation. And Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and
  worshiped.

  Ezra 9:13 - And after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and for
  our great guilt, seeing that you, our God, have punished us less than our
  iniquities deserved and have given us such a remnant as this, (ESV)

Having faith in God involves following Jesus:

  Hebrews 10:32-39 - But recall the former days when, after you were
  enlightened, you endured a hard struggle with sufferings, sometimes being
  publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners
  with those so treated. For you had compassion on those in prison, and you
  joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you
  yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one. Therefore do not
  throw away your confidence, which has a great reward. For you have need of
  endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what
  is promised. For, Yet a little while, and the coming one will come and will
  not delay; but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks
  back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who shrink
  back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their
  souls.

I agree whole heartedly with this guy:

• Are All Christians Disciples? (Lordship Salvation)

I believe that generally-speaking, there is no difference between being a
disciple of Jesus and a Christian because those who have faith in Jesus will
do works He does. Some disciples of Jesus turned away. Some believers in
Jesus became His disciples:

  Acts 11:21 - And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who
  believed turned to the Lord. (ESV)

We're clearly instructed to be disciples:

  Matthew 28:19-20 - Go therefore and make disciples of all nations,
  baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy
  Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold,
  I am with you always, to the end of the age. (ESV)

  John 13:35 - By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you
  have love for one another. (ESV)

  John 15:8 - By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so
  prove to be my disciples. (ESV)

  Luke 14:33 - So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he
  has cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

  Luke 14:27 - Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot
  be my disciple. (ESV)

In fact I think we should be both a believer and a disciple to be sanctified
by the truth and regarded by God as on of His saints:

  II Corinthians 3:18 - And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory
  of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of
  glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. (ESV)

Jesus said to these believers that if they abide in His word (and I believe
that means keep His word, even in obedience), they are His disciples - so a
person can be a believer before they are a disciple. But we're supposed to
make this transition:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

I am increasingly of the opinion that there is a subtle difference between
simply 'believer' and 'saint' who is also a believer. Saints both believe and
keep the God's commandments. Believing disciples of Jesus may become saints.

  II Thessalonians 1:9-12 - They will suffer the punishment of eternal
  destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his
  might, when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints, and to be
  marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was
  believed. To this end we always pray for you, that our God may make you
  worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work
  of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified
  in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord
  Jesus Christ. (ESV)

There is a transformation in the heart of a born-again Christian that
involves changing allegiance towards Jesus Christ, resulting in the will to
obey Jesus, and God gives us the spirit to help us to obey Him.

  Ezekiel 11:19-20 - And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will
  put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give
  them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules
  and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. (ESV)

  Romans 6:18-20 - and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of
  righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. When you
  were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. (ESV)

Quote by Joe Rigney
We receive salvation as a gift. But we do work out our own salvation, and we
do so because God is at work within us to will and to work for his good
pleasure. We are working out what God is working in. And he is working at the
level of our will — our desires, our affections, our choices. Fundamental to
salvation is heart change, the transformation of our wills by God so that we
will and work for his good pleasure.

  Hebrews 13:20-21 - Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead
  our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the
  eternal covenant, equip you with everything good that you may do his will,
  working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to
  whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:12-13 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your
  own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both
  to will and to work for his good pleasure. (ESV)

5.8. I believe that a loving, trusting ( believing and obedient ) heart for Jesus
Christ is essential for permanent abiding in Him

After believing in Him we must go ahead in the teaching of Christ:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

  Romans 6:17-19 - But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. (ESV)

Jesus' disciples (who had made Jesus their Lord) heard his words and were
developing their belief for a while:

  John 16:29-31 - His disciples said, Ah, now you are speaking plainly and
  not using figurative speech! Now we know that you know all things and do
  not need anyone to question you; this is why we believe that you came from
  God. Jesus answered them, Do you now believe? (ESV)

If a person truly believes Jesus is who He says He is then they have eternal
life and they will go on at some point to do the works Jesus did:

  John 14:12 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also
  do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I
  am going to the Father. (ESV)

Like the Apostle Peter, they may be quick to belief, and stumble their way to
obedience:

  Matthew 16:15-18 - He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon
  Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus
  answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not
  revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you
  are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell
  shall not prevail against it. (ESV)

Thomas had extreme love towards Jesus and obedience to following Jesus:

  John 11:8 - The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now
  seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? (ESV)

  John 11:16 - So Thomas, called the Twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let
  us also go, that we may die with him. (ESV)

Hearkening, listening and obeying seems to be what we're called to do:

  Deuteronomy 28:1 - “Now it shall be, if you diligently obey the LORD your
  God, being careful to do all His commandments which I command you today,
  the LORD your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth.
  (NASB)

Interlinear of the initial part of Deuteronomy 28:1:

|  1961                        518
|  wə·hā·yāh,                  ’im-
|  והיה                        אם־
|  Now it shall come to pass   if
|  Conj‑w | V‑Qal‑ConjPerf‑3ms Conj
| 
|  8085 [e]     8085 [e]         6963 [e]       3068 [e]
|  šā·mō·w·a‘   tiš·ma‘          bə·qō·wl       Yah·weh
|  שמוע         תשמע             בקול           יהוה
|   diligently   you obey         the voice      of Yahweh
|   V‑Qal‑InfAbs V‑Qal‑Imperf‑2ms Prep‑b | N‑msc N‑proper‑ms

6963. qol
sound, voice

8085. shama
to hear

tiš·ma‘
heed/hearken/listen/obey/understand

šā·mō·w·a‘
diligently/truly/carefully/will indeed

If a person continues to obey Jesus they will eventually, like Thomas, arrive
at the Truth and believe Jesus is who He says He is.

  John 20:27-31 - Then he said to Thomas, Put your finger here, and see my
  hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve,
  but believe. Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God! Jesus said to him,
  Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not
  seen and yet have believed. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence
  of the disciples, which are not written in this book; but these are written
  so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that
  by believing you may have life in his name. (ESV)

Here is another example where obeying Jesus led to belief:

  John 21:4-7 - Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore; yet the
  disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to them, Children, do
  you have any fish? They answered him, No. He said to them, Cast the net on
  the right side of the boat, and you will find some. So they cast it, and
  now they were not able to haul it in, because of the quantity of fish. That
  disciple whom Jesus loved therefore said to Peter, It is the Lord! When
  Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he
  was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea. (ESV)

And another example where obedience to Jesus leads to belief:

  Luke 5:4-8 - And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, Put out
  into the deep and let down your nets for a catch. And Simon answered,
  Master, we toiled all night and took nothing! But at your word I will let
  down the nets. And when they had done this, they enclosed a large number of
  fish, and their nets were breaking. They signaled to their partners in the
  other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both the boats,
  so that they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at
  Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. (ESV)

youtube.com: Devotions with DeMarcus - Luke 5

Obeying Jesus and witnessing His glory should brings us to faith in Him.
Obeying Jesus should lead us to seeing His glory and an understanding:

  Mark 8:17-21 - And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why are you
  discussing the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or
  understand? Are your hearts hardened? Having eyes do you not see, and
  having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember? When I broke the five
  loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did
  you take up? They said to him, Twelve. And the seven for the four thousand,
  how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up? And they said to
  him, Seven. And he said to them, Do you not yet understand? (ESV)

Learning to trust in Jesus, learning to trust Jesus, as we obey Him and
witness His glory, and come to trust in Him, to believe in Him. Obedience to
Jesus leads to witnessing His glory which inspires our faith:

  John 2:7-11 - Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water. And
  they filled them up to the brim. And he said to them, Now draw some out and
  take it to the master of the feast. So they took it. When the master of the
  feast tasted the water now become wine, and did not know where it came from
  (though the servants who had drawn the water knew), the master of the feast
  called the bridegroom and said to him, Everyone serves the good wine first,
  and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. But you have kept
  the good wine until now. This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in
  Galilee, and manifested his glory. And his disciples (G3101 mathetes)
  believed (G4100 pisteuo) in him. (ESV)

Both belief and obedience lead to a knowledge of the Truth, and I believe we
must essentially arrive at belief and understanding in the heart and
ultimately an actual knowledge:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
  No one comes to the Father except through me. (ESV)

  I John 4:16 - So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has
  for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God
  abides in him. (ESV)

And I believe too that we must arrive at willing to do the will of God:

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. (ESV)

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him,

Jesus loved us before we loved Him:

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

If someone obeys Jesus they should arrive at belief in Jesus and who He is
and what He has accomplished; they should accept Him:

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me.

If a person believes on Jesus and what He has accomplished they should arrive
at obedience, and if they want to be counted as a friend of Jesus, they
certainly they must obey Jesus' commandments:

  John 15:10-14 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love,
  just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. These
  things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy
  may be full. This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have
  loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his
  life for his friends. You are my friends if you do what I command you.

I think faith in Jesus grows as both of these qualities increase, and leads
to actual knowledge of Christ:

• Whoever believes in Jesus Christ, the Only-Begotten Son of God, is not
condemned.
• Otherwise, those who don't believe that fully and do not obey the gospel,
I think fall into condemnation or tribulation.
• Those who obey in part yet do not believe the gospel, I think fall into
condemnation or tribulation.

Nevertheless, if someone believes on Him they have begun to obey Him, and so
I believe they are in the Lord while they trust in His name, Jesus Christ
(Messiah) the Son of God, to be saved, as the following applies:

  John 3:18 - Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not
  believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of
  the only Son of God. (ESV)

We still have life in Jesus Christ's name while we believe that Jesus is the
Christ, the Son of God:

  John 20:31 - but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is
  the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his
  name. (ESV)

That's confirmed here by saying that these people are not 'spiritual' but
they are still in Christ:

  I Corinthians 3:1 - But I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual
  people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ. (ESV)

And as we know, no-one in Christ is condemned:

  Romans 8:1 - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in
  Christ Jesus.

So if a person is believing (verb) in Him - I don't think they fall into
condemnation, no matter how otherwise disobedient they are.

Actually, at some stage I think we have to just rest in the knowledge that
it's all about what He did, as far as being saved goes, not what we've done
for Him.

  Hebrews 4:10 - for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his
  works as God did from his. (ESV)

God is the justifier, and God is the one who decides who is in Christ.

  I Corinthians 1:30 - But by His doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became
  to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and
  redemption, (NASB)

Love (obedience) and belief:

  John 16:27-28 - for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me
  and have believed that I came from God. I came from the Father and have
  come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the
  Father.

  John 15:16 - You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that
  you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that
  whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.

It's possible to follow Jesus' voice even before having come to perfect
knowledge and obedience, but Jesus knows His sheep. We must hear Jesus'
voice, obey Him, become a slave to righteousness, following His commandments
and at its end, Jesus gives us eternal life:

  John 10:26-29 - but you do not believe because you are not part of my
  flock. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give
  them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them
  out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all,
  and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. (ESV)

Trust in God (Trusting in God involves trusting God and trusting God enough
to do what He says):

• We should trust in God.
• We should have faith in God.
• We should have faith in Jesus.
• God justifies the one who puts their faith in Jesus, who trusts in Jesus.

Putting faith in Jesus means trusting in Jesus and trusting.

We don't love the Christmas presents more than our parents. Rather, we simply
love our parents and they provide the Christmas presents. Likewise, we trust
in Jesus and we believe that God justifies the one who trusts in Jesus.

The true believers follow Jesus. They are Jesus' sheep, and they keep His
teachings and trust in Him (enough to obey Him penitently):

• trust Jesus
• youtube.com: I trust in God !
• even for their justification
• hear Jesus' voice
• youtube.com: How to Hear God's Voice & Why You're Not Hearing Him ?
• desiringgod.org: The Morning I Heard the Voice of God | Desiring God
• love Him
• follow Him (they're being obedient)
• Jesus knows them

  John 8:47 - Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do
  not hear them is that you are not of God. (ESV)

I believe that what this says is that at the point Jesus knows you listen to
His voice and obey His voice, He counts you as one of His sheep and He will
not let you go.

The righteousness that comes through having faith in Jesus Christ - faith
(not mere belief) is required to have the righteousness - to be found in
Jesus:

  Philippians 3:9 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
  that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the
  righteousness from God that depends on faith— (ESV)

The words Jesus Christ spoke were altogether a commandment of eternal life
which Father God had given Jesus to speak:

  John 12:49-50 - For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father
  who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say and what to
  speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say,
  therefore, I say as the Father has told me. (ESV)

Believing:

• youtube.com: His Voice in Yours: How Christ Wins the World

Our heart must be close to Jesus:

  Matthew 15:8 - This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is
  far from me; (ESV)

  John 6:35 - Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me
  shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:6 - Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness,
  for they shall be satisfied. (ESV)

If we trust God, we trust in Him. If we trust in Him, we trust Him. We trust
Jesus' words. We trust Jehovah's words. Trusting in is not naturally separate
from trusting. For the one trusting (it says trusting, not trusted), out of
their belly will flow living water:

  John 7:38 - The [one] believing (4100. pisteuó) in Me as has said the
  Scripture Rivers out of the belly of him will flow of water living
  (Interlinear)

Faith is both believing and obedient, even faith in the heart:

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Verse Ref        Believe (Jesus is their      Obey (Jesus is their Lord)
Saviour)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 11:29  learn from me                    take my yoke upon you
John 12:36     believe in the light, that you    
may become sons of light
I am the light of the
John 8:12                                       world. Whoever follows me
will not walk in darkness
Whoever believes (G4100          whoever does not obey (544.
John 3:36      pisteuōn - is believing (verb))  apeitheó) the Son shall not
in the Son has eternal life      see life
Romans 10:9    believe in your heart that God   confess with your mouth
raised him from the dead         that Jesus is Lord
but you do not believe because   My sheep hear my voice, and
John 10:26-27  you are not part of my flock     I know them, and they
follow me.
this is his commandment, that    and love one another, just
I John 3:23    we believe in the name of his    as he has commanded us
Son Jesus Christ
he loved us and sent his Son to
I John 4:10    be the propitiation for our       
sins
this is love, that we walk
II John 1:6                                     according to his
commandments
whoever believes (4100.          whoever comes to me shall
John 6:35      pisteuó) in me shall never       not hunger
thirst
would have asked him, and he
John 4:10      would have given you living       
water.
My food is to do the will
John 4:34                                       of him who sent me and to
accomplish his work.
John 20:31     by believing you may have life    
in his name.
you have been set free from
Romans 6:22                                     sin and have become slaves
of God
whoever hears my word and
John 5:24      believes him who sent me has      
eternal life
Hebrews 5:9                                     eternal salvation to all
who obey him,
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

5.8.1. The Holy Spirit is the living water

We trust Jesus (Yeshua), so we accept and treasure His words, so we trust in
Him and obey Him out of trust and He is our strength, and song and Yahweh
becomes our salvation. In trusting Jesus (Yeshua) we trust Jehovah (Yahweh)
who has sent Jesus (Yeshua). It's Jesus Christ who saves us. It's Yahweh who
saves us:

  Isaiah 12:1-3 - You will say in that day: I will give thanks to you, O LORD
  (3068. Yhvh), for though you were angry with me, your anger turned away,
  that you might comfort me. Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust (982.
  batach), and will not be afraid; for the LORD GOD (3068. Yhvh) is my
  strength (5797. oz) and my song (2176. zimrath), and he has become my
  salvation (3444. yeshuah). With joy (8342. sason) you will draw water
  (4325. mayim) from the wells of salvation. (ESV)

  John 7:37-39 - On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up
  and cried out, If anyone thirsts (1372. dipsaó), let him come to me and
  drink (4095. pinó). Whoever believes (4100. pisteuó) in me, as the
  Scripture has said, Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now
  this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to
  receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not
  yet glorified. (ESV)

If we trust God, we trust in Him. If we trust in Him, we trust Him. We trust
Jesus' words. We trust Jehovah's words. Trusting in is not naturally separate
from trusting. For the one trusting (it says trusting, not trusted), out of
their belly will flow living water:

  John 7:38 - The [one] believing (4100. pisteuó) in Me as has said the
  Scripture Rivers out of the belly of him will flow of water living
  (Interlinear)

1372. dipsaó
Definition: to thirst. Usage: I thirst for, desire earnestly.

I desire You, Lord Jesus Christ! Please, God, let me always believe in You,
trusting in You! Thank You God for Your mercy!

  Revelation of John 22:17 - The Spirit and the Bride say, Come. And let the
  one who hears say, Come. And let the one who is thirsty come; let the one
  who desires take the water of life without price (1432. dórean). (ESV)

1432. dórean
Definition: as a gift, to no purpose. Usage: as a free gift, without payment,
freely. Cognate: 1432 dōreán(the adverbial form of 1431/dōrea) – something
freely done (as gratis), i.e. without "cause"; unearned (undeserved); freely
given (without cost) hence not done out of mere obligation or compulsion. See
1431 (dōrea).

If you're thirsty for Jesus then trust in Jesus! Jesus is always there to
satisfy that desire for Him. If you're thirsty, put your trust in Jesus. Keep
trusting Jesus, trusting in Him, treasuring and trusting His words, trusting
in God and you'll never be thirsty again.

  Matthew 5:6 - Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness,
  for they shall be satisfied. (ESV)

  Luke 8:6 - And some fell on the rock, and as it grew up, it withered away,
  because it had no moisture. (ESV)

  Luke 8:12 - The ones along the path are those who have heard. Then the
  devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not
  believe and be saved. (ESV)

  Romans 3:24 - and are justified by his grace as a gift (1432. dórean),
  through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, (ESV)

  Isaiah 44:2-4 - Thus says the LORD who made you, who formed you from the
  womb and will help you: Fear not, O Jacob my servant, Jeshurun whom I have
  chosen. For I will pour water on the thirsty land, and streams on the dry
  ground; I will pour my Spirit upon your offspring, and my blessing on your
  descendants. They shall spring up among the grass like willows by flowing
  streams. (ESV)

  Isaiah 58:9-11 - Then you shall call, and the LORD will answer; you shall
  cry, and he will say, Here I am. If you take away the yoke from your midst,
  the pointing of the finger, and speaking wickedness, if you pour yourself
  out for the hungry and satisfy the desire of the afflicted, then shall your
  light rise in the darkness and your gloom be as the noonday. And the LORD
  will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scorched places and
  make your bones strong; and you shall be like a watered garden, like a
  spring of water, whose waters do not fail. (ESV)

  John 7:38 - The [one] believing (4100. pisteuó) in Me as has said the
  Scripture Rivers out of the belly of him will flow of water living
  (Interlinear)

|  3588      4100      1519 1473     2531   2036     3588    1124      4215
|  ho        pisteuōn  eis  eme      kathōs eipen    hē      graphē    Potamoi
|  ὁ         πιστεύων  εἰς  ἐμέ  ,   καθὼς  εἶπεν    ἡ       γραφή  :  Ποταμοὶ
|  The [one] believing in   Me       as     has said the     Scripture Rivers
|  Art-NMS   V-PPA-NMS Prep PPro-A1S Adv    V-AIA-3S Art-NFS N-NFS     N-NMP
| 
|  1537   3588    2836    846       4482       5204     2198
|  ek     tēs     koilias autou     rheusousin hydatos  zōntos
|  ἐκ     τῆς     κοιλίας αὐτοῦ     ῥεύσουσιν  ὕδατος   ζῶντος  .
|   out of the     belly   of him    will flow  of water living
|   Prep   Art-GFS N-GFS   PPro-GM3S V-FIA-3P   N-GNS    V-PPA-GNS

5.8.2. Trusting belief (through grace) leads to continued obedience, which
leads to knowledge of the Truth

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

Seeking God in truth and not seeking glory from one another is a good place
to start in coming to believe:

  John 5:44 - How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another
  and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? (ESV)

Willing to actually do the will of God, you'll receive revelation:

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. (ESV)

In seeking God, and coming to Jesus, we must believe that God exists and that
in seeking Him, God rewards them:

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him.

We come to Jesus by faith and not by sight:

  Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:7 - for we walk by faith, not by sight. (ESV)

We must come to Jesus for eternal life:

  John 5:39-40 - You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you
  have eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me, yet you
  refuse to come to me that you may have life. (ESV)

Jesus is the Rock:

  I Corinthians 10:4 - and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank
  from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. (ESV)

Belief is important (and is an initial act of obedience):

  Matthew 16:15-18 - He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon
  Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus
  answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not
  revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you
  are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell
  shall not prevail against it. (ESV)

Obedience is important:

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

We believe the Lord Jesus is who He is, the Christ, the Son of the living
God, and Jesus builds the house as we obey Him.

  Psalms 127:1 - Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor
  in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in
  vain.

  I John 4:10-16 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he
  loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if
  God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen
  God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in
  us. By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given
  us of his Spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his
  Son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son
  of God, God abides in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to
  believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in
  love abides in God, and God abides in him. (ESV)

5.8.3. As we come to Jesus, we are conformed to His image

  Romans 8:29 - For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be
  conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn
  among many brothers. (ESV)

5.8.4. Peter was quick to belief, and his belief led to obedience

  Matthew 16:15-18 - He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon
  Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus
  answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not
  revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you
  are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell
  shall not prevail against it. (ESV)

Peter's obedience wasn't perfect after that, but His belief did lead to doing
works that Jesus Himself did.

Peter's belief and obedience worked together for a miracle but He wavered:

  Matthew 14:28-33 - And Peter answered him, Lord, if it is you, command me
  to come to you on the water. He said, Come. So Peter got out of the boat
  and walked on the water and came to Jesus. But when he saw the wind, he was
  afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out, Lord, save me. Jesus
  immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying to him, O you
  of little faith, why did you doubt? And when they got into the boat, the
  wind ceased. And those in the boat worshiped him, saying, Truly you are the
  Son of God. (ESV)

5.8.5. Thomas was following Jesus around for a long time and was slow to
belief, but arrived

His obedience eventually led to belief. This is in line with the gospel.

  John 20:27-31 - Then he said to Thomas, Put your finger here, and see my
  hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve,
  but believe. Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God! Jesus said to him,
  Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not
  seen and yet have believed. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence
  of the disciples, which are not written in this book; but these are written
  so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that
  by believing you may have life in his name. (ESV)

  Hebrews 5:9 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, (ESV)

Then obeying Jesus and believing His words leads to Jesus:

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (ESV)

5.8.6. Believing Jesus

The drink is to believe that Jesus is the Christ (Messiah), the Son of God,
who has come into the world,and receive the Holy Spirit:

  John 4:10-56 - Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it
  is that is saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he
  would have given you living water. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks
  of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water that I
  will give him will never be thirsty forever. The water that I will give him
  will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. So Jesus
  said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the
  Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on
  my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on
  the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink.
  Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him.
  (ESV)

The Holy Spirit is the living water:

  John 7:37-39 - On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up
  and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever
  believes in me, as the Scripture has said, Out of his heart will flow
  rivers of living water. Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who
  believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given,
  because Jesus was not yet glorified. (ESV)

This belief is a free gift which has to be received in faith (you have to
believe it):

  John 7:37-38 - On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up
  and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever
  believes in me, as the Scripture has said, Out of his heart will flow
  rivers of living water. (ESV)

God wants to bring people to the obedience of faith. We have to hear Jesus'
word and believe God who sent Him - we have to believe what God has told
Jesus to tell us:

  Luke 9:35 - And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my Son, my
  Chosen One; listen to him! (ESV)

Listening to Jesus, we are already obeying the will of God, who commanded us
to listen to Him:

  Romans 10:17 - So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of
  Christ. (ESV)

Trusting in Jesus, trusting Jesus, trusting in God, we are becoming obedient
to Jesus:

  John 14:1 - Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also
  in me. (ESV)

  Hebrews 5:9 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, (ESV)

Trusting Jesus' words we do not come into judgement, but change direction,
and instead our destiny is life eternal. We do not come into judgement. Jesus
is the judge of that:

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word (191.
  akouó) and believes (4100. pisteuó) him who sent me has eternal life. He
  does not come (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed (3327.
  metabain) from death to life. (ESV)

I think John 5:24 reads that the one who is trusting the words spoken through
Jesus, trusting God, trusting Jesus is holds/posesses eternal life and has
passed from death into life.

2064. erchomai
to come, go

3327. metabain
to pass over, withdraw, depart

Therefore, I believe that believing Jesus is the Christ (Messiah), the Son of
God, who has come into the world, is God's gift to us and it is a very easy
to receive (low barrier to entry) act of obedience to Him:

  Romans 16:26 - but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic
  writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of
  the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith — (ESV)

Obedience should grow. A change should have taken place in the person's life:

  John 14:12 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also
  do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I
  am going to the Father. (ESV)

The Holy Spirit leads us:

  Romans 8:14-17 - For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.
  For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but
  you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba!
  Father! The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are
  children of God, and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs
  with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be
  glorified with him. (ESV)

We must have believing, obedient faith in God regarding Jesus Christ His Son
as Abraham had faith in God:

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of faith:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

The righteousness of faith:

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Believing God as Abraham     Walking obediently in the
Verse Ref            believed God           footsteps of faith of our
father Abraham
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
And he believed the Lord,
Genesis 15:6      and he counted it to him    
as righteousness
Genesis 22:17-18                             because you have obeyed my
voice
Abraham believed God, and
Galatians 3:6     it was counted to him as    
righteousness
Abraham believed God, and  he offered up his son Isaac on
James 2:21-23     it was counted to him as   the altar
righteousness
because Abraham obeyed my
Genesis 26:4-5                               voice and kept my charge, my
commandments, my statutes, and
my laws
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Abraham had righteousness attributed to him when he believed God, while he
had an obedient and faithful heart towards God:

  Genesis 15:5-6 - And he brought him outside and said, Look toward heaven,
  and number the stars, if you are able to number them. Then he said to him,
  So shall your offspring be. And he believed (539. aman) the Lord, and he
  counted it to him as righteousness.

The blessing was assured to him by God because of obedience (the obedient
works of faith brought him assurance for God's blessing):

  Genesis 22:17-18 - I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your
  offspring as the stars of heaven and as the sand that is on the seashore.
  And your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies, and in your
  offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have
  obeyed my voice.

oneplace.com why-the-believer-doubts-part-1-1-1172653.html: Why the Believer
Doubts, Part 1 {#1} - Listen to Grace to You with John MacArthur, Jul 1, 2024
John MacArthur - "Assurance is not necessarily always going to be the
believer's experience. Assurance is a gift to an obedient deliever, and when
there is disobedience in your life as a believer, or when there is sin in
your life, or when you have sort of loosened up your intimacy and
relationship with the LORD, doubt will begin to grow."

Therefore, we should believe with an obedient heart, and obey to receive
God's assurance.

I believe that every one of Jesus' sheep have a believing, obedient heart,
and Jesus knows who they are and no-one will be able to snatch them from
Jesus' hand.

No man has the power to take the salvation of Jesus Christ away from another.
No Pope has the power to take the salvation of Jesus Christ away from
another, even by 'excommunication'. Amen.

  John 10:28-30 - I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and
  no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to
  me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the
  Father's hand. I and the Father are one. (ESV)

  John 6:37-39 - All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever
  comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven, not to
  do my own will but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him
  who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but
  raise it up on the last day. (ESV)

  Galatians 1:10 - For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am
  I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not
  be a servant of Christ. (ESV)

  Romans 14:22 - The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God.
  Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what
  he approves. (ESV)

I personally believe that it's God's role to justify, not ours, and if we
want personal assurance that we are saved, we must seek and follow Jesus, and
arrive at the door.

Abraham was obedient the entire time, even when God counted Abraham's belief
as righteousness. We should, likewise be obedient when we believe. Abraham
was justified when He believed with an obedient heart but faith was completed
by the works of faith and Abraham was given assurance of the blessing:

  James 2:21-23 - Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he
  offered up his son Isaac on the altar? You see that faith was active along
  with his works, and faith was completed by his works; and the Scripture was
  fulfilled that says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as
  righteousness—and he was called a friend of God. (ESV)

Where previously I said "I'm going out on a limb when I say that without an
obedient heart the so-called belief doesn't qualify as belief:", my best
interpretation of this now is that, believing in Jesus Christ, a person has
obeyed Jesus and currently holds eternal life at that point or in their
future, which is to know Jesus and Father God, but Jesus is the one to
justify that person when He looks at the heart. We must trust Him Himself:

  Romans 4:5-8 - And to the one who does not work but trusts him who
  justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, just as David
  also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness
  apart from works: Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not
  count his sin.

This trust of Jesus should mean a person is believing in the heart to Jesus,
and to a greater or lesser degree, obedient to Him. If they don't continue in
accepting Jesus' words/commandments they may not "see life" and the wrath of
God may remain on that person - so we must actually repent from sin (confess
sin as sin, attempt to stop obeying sin) and seek to know Jesus by being
taught by Him as we follow His commandments:

  John 12:48 - The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
  judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.

This faith/trust/belief towards Jesus listens to Jesus' voice. So if a person
is rejecting Jesus' teachings then they need to repent and trust Jesus'
words. If the belief is true then we'll continue believing Jesus with all the
other things He said:

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

We are under grace now. We're not slaves to the Mosaic Law:

  Romans 6:14-15 - For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not
  under law but under grace? By no means! (ESV)

But we are obedient slaves now to righteousness, slaves of God, as slaves of
Christ:

  Romans 6:16-18 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone
  as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But
  thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient
  from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,
  and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.
  (ESV)

We need to obey Jesus in order to be in relationship with Him, even to live a
godly life which has its benefits, and without being persuaded by Jesus
(trusting Jesus' voice), the wrath of God remains:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

That word apeitheó, means to be persuaded by (with connotations of
obedience). Therefore, it really means to fully hearken to Jesus, accepting
Jesus' words, believing Him, trusting Him, accepting Him, including accepting
His teachings, and believing His teachings.

I really believe we should both believe and obey Jesus, but I don't want to
condemn people when I am not the judge, and nor can I see the person's heart.

We need to obey Jesus to see the life. That obedience isn't "working" but it
is "performing/carrying out" but our justification isn't contingent on
"working":

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

On the other hand, if we obey Jesus we will never see death:

  John 8:51 - Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will
  never see death. (ESV)

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 10:13 - and to keep the commandments and statutes of the LORD,
  which I am commanding you today for your good? (ESV)

It's definitely about belief in in the heart:

  Proverbs 4:23 - Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the
  springs of life. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 17:10 - I the LORD search the heart and test the mind, to give
  every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds. (ESV)

  Acts 28:27 - For the heart of this people has become dull, And with their
  ears they scarcely hear, And they have closed their eyes; Otherwise they
  might see with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with
  their heart and return, And I would heal them.”’

Eternal salvation goes to those who obey Jesus:

  Hebrews 5:8-9 - Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he
  suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation
  to all who obey him, (ESV)

God's commandment is to bring about the obedience of faith (having faith is
in God and through Jesus Christ is being obedient to God):

  Romans 16:26 - but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic
  writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of
  the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith — (ESV)

So to be saved a person must have an obedient heart, prepared for the good
works which are prepared for us to walk in:

  Ephesians 2:8-10 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus
  for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation,
  a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of
  him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. (ESV)

Abraham believed and obeyed:

  Genesis 26:4-5 - I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and
  will give to your offspring all these lands. And in your offspring all the
  nations of the earth shall be blessed, because Abraham obeyed my voice and
  kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. (ESV)

youtube.com: Steven Curtis Chapman - For The Sake Of The Call
We will abandon it all for the sake of the call; No other reason at all but
the sake of the call; Wholly devoted to live and to die; Not for the sake of
a creed or a cause; Not for a dream or a promise; Simply because it is Jesus
who called; And if we believe we'll obey

One of the criminals crucified next to Jesus came to the obedience of faith
and obeyed the gospel:

  Luke 23:39-43 - One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying,
  Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us! But the other rebuked him,
  saying, Do you not fear God, since you are under the same sentence of
  condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of
  our deeds; but this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, Jesus,
  remember me when you come into your kingdom. And he said to him, Truly, I
  say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise. (ESV)

In this way we must have faith in God the Father of Jesus Christ, and believe
and obey Jesus because God commanded it.

According to Paul, Abraham trusted God and that trust he had meant he didn't
waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he
have glory to God.

That's right, and Abraham's faith included:

• faithfulness
• No apistia
• giving glory to God
• obedience
• works of faith
• not works of the law (which came later), but the works of faith such
as:
• not accepting gifts from the king of Sodom
• An interesting parallel is how the Apostle John's
children/disciples were walking in love while walking in
the truth, and rejecting offerings from Gentiles who were
not walking in the truth:
• III John 1:4-8 - I have no greater joy than to hear that
my children are walking in the truth. Beloved, it is a
faithful thing you do in all your efforts for these
brothers, strangers as they are, who testified to your
love before the church. You will do well to send them on
their journey in a manner worthy of God. For they have
gone out for the sake of the name, accepting nothing from
the Gentiles. Therefore we ought to support people like
these, that we may be fellow workers for the truth. (ESV)
• placing Isaac on the Altar
• etc.

What I mean to say is, the faithful trust in God that Abraham had concerning
the promise of God is exhibited plainly in Abraham's action, and was
faithful, enduring, unwavering, over an amount of time.

  Romans 4:20-25 - No distrust (apistia) made him waver concerning the
  promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,
  fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why
  his faith was counted to him as righteousness. But the words it was counted
  to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be
  counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord,
  who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.

Interlinear
biblehub.com 4-20.htm: Romans 4:20 Interlinear: and at the promise of God did
not stagger in unbelief, but was strengthened in faith, having given glory to
God,

|  apistia: unbelief
|  Original Word: ἀπιστία, ας, ἡ
|  Part of Speech: Noun, Feminine
|  Transliteration: apistia
|  Phonetic Spelling: (ap-is-tee'-ah)
|  Definition: unbelief
|  Usage: unbelief, unfaithfulness, distrust.

Therefore, when we trust wholeheartedly in God who has raised from the dead
Jesus Christ (who is our Lord, meaning we obey Him), and because we believe,
we then inevitably produce working faith.

We're supposed to do good works of faith by Jesus' power so that Jesus' name
is glorified - and those works done in Jesus' power are entirely given by
grace to us:

  II Thessalonians 1:11-12 - To this end we always pray for you, that our God
  may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good
  and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus
  may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God
  and the Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

Our faith is exhibited plainly in our action. Our own actions and way of
expressing that faith paint a unique picture, with a faith towards God that
may be expressed a little bit differently, in different works of faith, or
simply keeping Jesus Christ's words and not denying His name - patient
endurance.

  Colossians 3:17 - And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in
  the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.

But it is all by God's grace that we are saved. A believing and obedient
heart is a trusting heart - a heart of faith - and our obedience gives us
confidence. All glory to God alone. We must obey Jesus to become like Jesus:

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

We should both believe and obey:

  Deuteronomy 30:20 - loving the LORD your God, obeying his voice and holding
  fast to him, for he is your life and length of days, that you may dwell in
  the land that the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to
  Jacob, to give them. (ESV)

Believe and obey (follow) Jesus:

  John 10:24-28 - So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long
  will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus
  answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in
  my Father's name bear witness about me, but you do not believe because you
  are not part of my flock. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they
  follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one
  will snatch them out of my hand.

  Exodus 33:17 - And the Lord said to Moses, This very thing that you have
  spoken I will do, for you have found favor in my sight, and I know you by
  name.

  John 10:16 - And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring
  them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock,
  one shepherd. (ESV)

Jesus knows us and we know Jesus:

  John 10:14 - I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me,
  (ESV)

We must be keeping Jesus' commandments for us to be sure that we have come to
know Him:

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him,

Jesus commands us to take His yoke (obey Him) and learn from Him (believe
Him):

  Matthew 11:29 - Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle
  and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. (ESV)

Whoever believes Jesus obeys Jesus - His sheep hear his voice, trust and
obey:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

God loves those who love Him and keep His commandments:

  Nehemiah 1:5 - And I said, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God
  who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his
  commandments,

If a person has an obedient and believing heart - a heart of faith - towards
Jesus, then they will be saved:

• If a person truthfully confesses (admits) with their mouth that Jesus is
Lord, they have an obedient heart.
• This must result in the person obeying Jesus; freely forgiving
others, loving others as He loved us, keeping Jesus' commandments
• If they believe in their heart that God raised Jesus from the dead, they
believe Jesus, and believe God who sent Him.
• This must result in the person accepting forgiveness for sin

  Romans 10:9 - because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord
  and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be
  saved. (ESV)

We should definitely confess Jesus to others:

  Luke 12:8-9 - And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the
  Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God, but the one who
  denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. (ESV)

I believe that a person does not have any security of eternal salvation
unless they have in their heart obedient, believing faith in Jesus Christ,
and even then there is often a race and a journey to receive it.

alpinebible.com: Rescued Along The Roman Road - Alpine Bible
“Whoever” means that any person can be saved, no matter who that person is.
No matter how terrible a person and his circumstances may be, that person can
be saved. You may be enslaved by the most terrible spirit of sin and evil
imaginable—God will still save you.

biblehub.com 10-9.htm: Romans 10:9 Interlinear: that if thou mayest confess
with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and mayest believe in thy heart that God did
raise him out of the dead, thou shalt be saved,

|  4982 [e]
|  sōthēsē
|  σωθήσῃ  .
|  you will be saved
|  V-FIP-2S

The knowledge of the truth is for those who abide in Jesus' word and follow
Him:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

I believe that obedience is as intrinsic and necessary to faith as belief is.

The good news must be united by obedient faith (putting Jesus' words into
action):

  Hebrews 4:1-2 - Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still
  stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it.
  For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did
  not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who
  listened. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:12 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out
  (G2716 katergazomai) your own salvation with fear and trembling, (ESV)

I believe in 'once saved, always saved, while doing the will of God'. So
someone must be a both a believer and a follower of Jesus.

  I John 2:17 - And the world is passing away along with its desires, but
  whoever does the will of God abides forever.

It's imperative that as we go ahead, we must abide in the teaching of Christ,
or we won't have God (Jehovah God), and God is love and love comes from God,
so we need to abide in Christ's teachings, by belief and by obedience. For
example, in Mark 10:18, Jesus affirmed that God is Good. Therefore when we
read this, we must also be sanctified by this truth, affirming and coming
into agreement that God is Good. Also, Jesus commanded us to love one another
as He loved us John 13:34-35:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

I think we are permanently saved when we are following Jesus.

We are saved from dying by Jesus giving us His Spirit and then, so long as we
are His sheep, coming to Him (by following His commandments), we will live
forever, in Him.

  John 6:37 - All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes
  to me I will never cast out. (ESV)

I believe that anyone who is trusting Jesus is saved by Him through His
finished work. That's not a call to not abide in / obey Jesus' teachings. God
raised Jesus from the dead for our justification. If we believe this fact we
believe God's testimony about Jesus - that's important and it shows we trust
God. Believing the gospel and trusting Father God, trusting Jesus, trusting
God's words, trusting Jesus and God's words spoken through Jesus is obeying
the gospel. When we trust Jesus, we believe who He is and what He
accomplished and we believe His words.

If a person thinks Jesus is untrustworthy then if they say they put trust in
Jesus they have put their trust in the wrong Jesus because the real Jesus is
trustworthy and His words are trustworthy. So the one who truly puts their
trust in Jesus is the one who trusts Jesus, hears His voice and believes Him
and follows Him.

John 12:48 - The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.

I also think there's more to faith in Jesus than just an intellectual belief
as far as getting to know your Saviour (knowing God) and abiding forever. I
think we need to actually trust Jesus - so we believe His words when we hear
them. Because we must bear fruit etc. and follow His commandments to come to
know Him. I don't condemn anyone who is believing on Him for life through His
name.

Doing the will of God is what it means to be led by the Spirit. So you have
to do the will of God, being a servant of Christ under the law of Christ, to
have the blessing of not being condemned by the law of Moses:

  Psalms 143:10 - Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your good
  Spirit lead me on level ground! (ESV)

Jesus Christ is the Lord referred to:

  II Corinthians 3:15-18 - Yes, to this day whenever Moses is read a veil
  lies over their hearts. But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is
  removed. Now the Lord (Κύριος, Kyrios, Lord, Master) is the Spirit, and
  where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. And we all, with
  unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into
  the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the
  Lord who is the Spirit. (ESV)

If you have trusting faith in God then you will walk according to the will of
God (walk the way Jesus Christ calls us to walk in obedience to Jesus, as a
response of love to God in the knowledge He loved us first). Led by the
Spirit = following Jesus.

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
  (ESV)

That's not working but it is walking and it is being obedient to Jesus. The
Israelites through the Red Sea were being led by the Spirit - they were not
working for God as they walked in obedience:

  Galatians 5:16-18 - But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify
  the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the
  Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are
  opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.
  But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.

Jesus' disciples here were being led by Jesus. As I understand it, we're only
not guilty if we're trusting Jesus who justifies the ungodly. Trusting Him
who justifies the ungodly has noticeable fruit of following Him because those
who trust Him follow Him:

  Matthew 12:1-8 - At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the
  Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck heads of grain
  and to eat. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, Look, your
  disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. He said to
  them, Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, and those who
  were with him: how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the
  Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat nor for those who were
  with him, but only for the priests? Or have you not read in the Law how on
  the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are
  guiltless? I tell you, something greater than the temple is here. And if
  you had known what this means, I desire mercy, and not sacrifice, you would
  not have condemned the guiltless. For the Son of Man is lord of the
  Sabbath. (ESV)

Those who love Him, obey Him:

  John 14:15-16 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, (ESV)

  James 1:12 - Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when
  he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has
  promised to those who love him. (ESV)

We love God and our brothers and sisters in Christ by following God's
commandments:

  I John 5:1-3 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and
  obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his
  commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

The crown of life is gifted to those who are obedient, and have been tested.
I think this verse can also be taken in the literal sense:

  Revelation 2:10 - Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the
  devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested,
  and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I
  will give you the crown of life. (ESV)

And I also think people have free will to sabotage their race.

Clearly 'believe' means also 'to be obedient' to because the ones that follow
Jesus (which means obey His commandments) are the ones who are counted as
believing (pisteuo):

  John 10:26-38 - but you do not believe (G4100 pisteuo) because you are not
  part of my flock. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
  me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will
  snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater
  than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and
  the Father are one.

We come into walking in the will of God:

  Romans 8:13-17 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but
  if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For
  all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not
  receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received
  the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba! Father! The Spirit
  himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God, and if
  children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we
  suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. (ESV)

Those in the process of being sanctified by Jesus are sons:

  Hebrews 12:5-8 - And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you
  as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be
  weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and
  chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to
  endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father
  does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have
  participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. (ESV)

  Hebrews 2:10-13 - For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all
  things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of
  their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those
  who are sanctified all have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to
  call them brothers, saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the
  midst of the congregation I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my
  trust in him. And again, Behold, I and the children God has given me. (ESV)

We put our trust in Jehovah God. We put our trust in Jesus:

  Isaiah 12:2 - Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and will not be
  afraid; for the LORD GOD is my strength and my song, and he has become my
  salvation. (ESV)

People fall away if they are not freed from sin. We're seeking to be freed
from sin:

  John 8:34-36 - Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone
  who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house
  forever; the son remains forever. So if the Son sets you free, you will be
  free indeed. (ESV)

We seek to be adopted as sons. To receive the Spirit of God's Son in our
hearts is what I think it means to be set free by the Son:

  Galatians 4:4-9 - But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth
  his Son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under
  the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are
  sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba!
  Father! So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir
  through God. Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to
  those that by nature are not gods. But now that you have come to know God,
  or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and
  worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be
  once more? (ESV)

I guess that means we should become slaves of Christ! We should be overcome
by Christ:

  Romans 6:22-23- But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its
  end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God
  is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

Christ's Spirit is a spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, "Abba!
Father!" It's not a spirit of slavery. So with a spirit of adoption we are
slaves to God:

  Romans 8:13-17 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but
  if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For
  all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not
  receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received
  the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba! Father! The Spirit
  himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God, and if
  children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we
  suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. (ESV)

Abba, Father!

We must be in Christ Jesus as a new creation:

  II Corinthians 5:17 - Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new
  creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.

A new creation has faith working through love and keeps Jesus Christ's
commandments:

  Galatians 6:15 - For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:6 - For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision
  counts for anything, but only faith working through love. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 7:19 - For neither circumcision counts for anything nor
  uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. (ESV)

A new creation lives for Christ:

  II Corinthians 5:14-17 - For the love of Christ controls us, because we
  have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died;
  and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for
  themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised. From now on,
  therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once
  regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer.
  Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed
  away; behold, the new has come.

Following Jesus Christ is not having a religious spirit, but it's serving God
in reality:

  Ephesians 5:13-16 - But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes
  visible, for anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says,
  Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.
  Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise, making the
  best use of the time, because the days are evil. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:26 - for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through
  faith. (ESV)

Bible study
youtube.com: Free from Judgment, Fighting Sin, Full Assurance @time: 30 min
46 sec

Jesus is asking of us to believe that He is the resurrection and the life;
Coming to a belief which [in John's terminology] involves personally
committing oneself to Jesus as Son of God, Saviour, Lord, Lamb of God and
King:

• Alistair Begg: The Hour Has Come - Part One

Jesus has to know us:

  Matthew 25:1-13 - Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who
  took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were
  foolish, and five were wise. For when the foolish took their lamps, they
  took no oil with them, but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. As
  the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. But at
  midnight there was a cry, Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him.
  Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said
  to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the
  wise answered, saying, Since there will not be enough for us and for you,
  go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves. And while they were going
  to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to
  the marriage feast, and the door was shut. Afterward the other virgins came
  also, saying, Lord, lord, open to us. But he answered, Truly, I say to you,
  I do not know you. Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the
  hour.

I believe that Jesus has a lot of grace for the weak and the powerless, the
children and the humble:

  Revelation of John 3:8 - I know your works. Behold, I have set before you
  an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little
  power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.

And it's about the heart:

  Mark 12:41-44 - And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the
  people putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large
  sums. And a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a
  penny. And he called his disciples to him and said to them, Truly, I say to
  you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to
  the offering box. For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she
  out of her poverty has put in everything she had, all she had to live on.
  (ESV)

Good work is rewarded. Lazy, disobedient belief is punished, and the
worthless servant who was entrusted with some work but was unfaithful with
his work (doesn't matter how much work it is) is cast away. Jesus isn't a
hard taskmaster but wants our whole heart. Jesus must be our Master:

  Matthew 25:14-30 - For it will be like a man going on a journey, who called
  his servants and entrusted to them his property. To one he gave five
  talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his ability.
  Then he went away. He who had received the five talents went at once and
  traded with them, and he made five talents more. So also he who had the two
  talents made two talents more. But he who had received the one talent went
  and dug in the ground and hid his master's money. Now after a long time the
  master of those servants came and settled accounts with them. And he who
  had received the five talents came forward, bringing five talents more,
  saying, Master, you delivered to me five talents; here I have made five
  talents more. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant.
  You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into
  the joy of your master. And he also who had the two talents came forward,
  saying, Master, you delivered to me two talents; here I have made two
  talents more. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant.
  You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into
  the joy of your master. He also who had received the one talent came
  forward, saying, Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did
  not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed, so I was afraid, and I
  went and hid your talent in the ground. Here you have what is yours. But
  his master answered him, You wicked and slothful servant! You knew that I
  reap where I have not sowed and gather where I scattered no seed? Then you
  ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should
  have received what was my own with interest. So take the talent from him
  and give it to him who has the ten talents. For to everyone who has will
  more be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who has not,
  even what he has will be taken away. And cast the worthless servant into
  the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of
  teeth.

It's all about the heart though, as Ignatius says "Let us not, therefore, be
insensible to His kindness. For were He to reward us according to our works,
we should cease to be.":

  Ignatius to the Magnesians 10 - Let us not, therefore, be insensible to His
  kindness. For were He to reward us according to our works, we should cease
  to be. Therefore, having become His disciples, let us learn to live
  according to the principles of Christianity. For whosoever is called by any
  other name besides this, is not of God. Lay aside, therefore, the evil, the
  old, the sour leaven, and be ye changed into the new leaven, which is Jesus
  Christ. Be ye salted in Him, lest any one among you should be corrupted,
  since by your savour ye shall be convicted. It is absurd to profess Christ
  Jesus, and to Judaize. For Christianity did not embrace Judaism, but
  Judaism Christianity, that so every tongue which believeth might be
  gathered together to God.

The righteous obey Jesus, and love our neighbour as He loved them; as He
commanded:

  Matthew 25:31-40 - When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the
  angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will
  be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another
  as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will place the
  sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. Then the King will say to
  those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the
  kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry
  and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger
  and you welcomed me, I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you
  visited me, I was in prison and you came to me. Then the righteous will
  answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or
  thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome
  you, or naked and clothe you? And when did we see you sick or in prison and
  visit you? And the King will answer them, Truly, I say to you, as you did
  it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.

The ones who do not obey Jesus go to eternal punishment:

  Matthew 25:41-45 - Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me,
  you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.
  For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no
  drink, I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not
  clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me. Then they also will
  answer, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger
  or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to you? Then he will
  answer them, saying, Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it to one of
  the least of these, you did not do it to me.

The ones who are slaves to righteousness, following Jesus Christ, go to
eternal life:

  Matthew 25:46 - And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the
  righteous into eternal life.

5.8.7. Believing Jesus, we have the right to become a child of God

  John 1:12 - But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he
  gave the right to become children of God, (ESV)

OK, so how? We must continue in what we have learned from the Holy Scriptures
and continue in what we have firmly believed:

  II Timothy 3:14-15 - But as for you, continue in what you have learned and
  have firmly believed, knowing from whom you learned it and how from
  childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able
  to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

We hear the gospel and believe in Him:

  Ephesians 1:13-14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

Believers then commit to the Lord:

  Acts 14:23 - And when they had appointed elders for them in every church,
  with prayer and fasting they committed them to the Lord in whom they had
  believed. (ESV)

This commitment to the Lord I believe is having a love for Jesus, which shows
itself in obedience:

  John 16:27 - for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me
  and have believed that I came from God. (ESV)

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

To abiding in His word is to commit to Jesus:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, If you
  abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth,
  and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

Believers are generally sealed with the Holy Spirit when they first believe:

  Acts 11:17 - If then God gave the same gift to them as he gave to us when
  we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could stand in God's
  way? (ESV)

  Acts 19:2 - And he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you
  believed? And they said, No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy
  Spirit. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

We are saved as we are believing:

  Romans 13:11 - Besides this you know the time, that the hour has come for
  you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we
  first believed. (ESV)

In this case, a great number of the total number of believers ended up
turning to the Lord:

  Acts 11:21 - And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who
  believed turned to the Lord. (ESV)

In this case, the full number of the total believers had turned to the Lord:

  Acts 4:32 - Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and
  soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his
  own, but they had everything in common. (ESV)

Father God who has spoken through the Prophets draws us to Jesus. We believe
in Jesus and we are drawn to Jesus:

  John 6:64-66 - But there are some of you who do not believe. (For Jesus
  knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was
  who would betray him.) And he said, This is why I told you that no one can
  come to me unless it is granted him by the Father. After this many of his
  disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. (ESV)

  John 6:44-51 - No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws
  him. And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the
  Prophets, And they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and
  learned from the Father comes to me— not that anyone has seen the Father
  except he who is from God; he has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to
  you, whoever believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life. Your
  fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread
  that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am
  the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread,
  he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the
  world is my flesh. (ESV)

Going forward, we must remain faithful to Jesus:

  Acts 11:23-24 - When he came and saw the grace of God, he was glad, and he
  exhorted them all to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose,
  for he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great
  many people were added to the Lord. (ESV)

We receive the Holy Spirit after / at the same time as believing. We want to
be found in Jesus:

  John 7:39 - Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in
  him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because
  Jesus was not yet glorified. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:13-14 - But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings,
  that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you
  are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of
  glory and of God rests upon you. (ESV)

In this situation, all of the believers were of one heart and mind:

  Acts 4:32 - Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and
  soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his
  own, but they had everything in common. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Who You Say I Am - Hillsong Worship

We believe and then we come to know Jesus:

  John 6:68-69 - Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You
  have the words of eternal life, and we have believed, and have come to
  know, that you are the Holy One of God. (ESV)

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, If you
  abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth,
  and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

Receive Jesus, believing in His name:

  John 1:12 - But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he
  gave the right to become children of God, (ESV)

We must abide by Jesus Christ's teaching. Whoever does not abide in Jesus
Christ's teaching does not have God:

  II John 1:9 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching
  of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the
  Father and the Son.

  Matthew 4:17 - From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent, for
  the kingdom of heaven is at hand. (ESV)

We must obey righteousness. Yes, obey Jesus' commandments and obey Father
God's commandments:

  Romans 2:6-8 - He will render to each one according to his works: to those
  who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he
  will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey
  the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. (ESV)

The children of God are the ones who love other children of God by following
God's commandments:

  I John 3:10 - By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who
  are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is
  not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. (ESV)

  I John 5:2 - By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love
  God and obey his commandments. (ESV)

Don't squabble about free-will and sit on the fence until the second coming.
Just do it:

  I Chronicles 28:20 - Then David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and
  courageous and do it. Do not be afraid and do not be dismayed, for the LORD
  God, even my God, is with you. He will not leave you or forsake you, until
  all the work for the service of the house of the LORD is finished. (ESV)

  Ezra 10:4 - Arise, for it is your task, and we are with you; be strong and
  do it. (ESV)

  Luke 8:21 - But he answered them, My mother and my brothers are those who
  hear the word of God and do it. (ESV)

God loves us by allowing us to know Him and be called children of God:

  Romans 8:16 - The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are
  children of God, (ESV)

  I John 3:1 - See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we
  should be called children of God; and so we are. The reason why the world
  does not know us is that it did not know him. (ESV)

  John 11:50-52 - Nor do you understand that it is better for you that one
  man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish. He
  did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year he
  prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, and not for the nation
  only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered
  abroad. (ESV)

  Romans 8:21 - that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to
  decay and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. (ESV)

God adopts us and cleans us up and puts us on display:

  Philippians 2:15 - that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God
  without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among
  whom you shine as lights in the world, (ESV)

  I John 3:18 - Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed
  and in truth. (ESV)

Children look like their Father:

  I John 3:7 - Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. (ESV)

People who do not practice righteousness, and do not abide in Christ's
teachings probably don't actually believe or have faith in Jesus:

  II Thessalonians 3:1-6 - Finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of
  the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, as happened among you, and that we
  may be delivered from wicked and evil men. For not all have faith. But the
  Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one.
  And we have confidence in the Lord about you, that you are doing and will
  do the things that we command. May the Lord direct your hearts to the love
  of God and to the steadfastness of Christ. Now we command you, brothers, in
  the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from any brother who
  is walking in idleness and not in accord with the tradition that you
  received from us. (ESV)

  II John 1:4 - I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in
  the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father. (ESV)

  III John 1:4 - I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are
  walking in the truth. (ESV)

Whoever loves with Christ's love knows Father God:

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

  I John 2:13 - I am writing to you, fathers, because you know him who is
  from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have
  overcome the evil one. I write to you, children, because you know the
  Father. (ESV)

5.8.8. My understanding of repentance

We need all of these:

• Belief in Jesus and His atoning sacrifice
• Obedience to Jesus' commandments
• Obeying the law of Christ
• Putting a stop to sin

youtube.com: Is Lordship Salvation Biblical? {The "Cheap Grace" Gospel
EXPOSED!!}

  II Chronicles 7:14 - if my people who are called by my name humble
  themselves, and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then
  I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land.
  (ESV)

Repentance leads to belief and obedience to Jesus:

• Someone who has only belief in the gift of grace and no obedience to
Jesus (which is effectively hating Jesus) must repent and come to have an
obedient heart.
• II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in
the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the
teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and
does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house or
give him any greeting, (ESV)
• Someone who has only obedience to Jesus' precepts but unbelieving and
unsubmissive to the righteousness of God must repent and come to have a
believing heart.
• John 20:27-28 - Then he said to Thomas, Put your finger here, and
see my hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not
disbelieve, but believe. Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God!

Jesus' sheep hear His voice and they follow Him:

  John 10:26-29 - but you do not believe because you are not part of my
  flock. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give
  them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them
  out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all,
  and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. (ESV)

We love Jesus by keeping His commandments:

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

Nothing will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our
Lord. He has to be our Lord:

  Romans 8:38-39 - For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor
  rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height nor
  depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from
  the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

I repeat this:

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

We want to abide in God's love through following Jesus' commandments, and
then nothing can separate us from His love.

God draws the person to Jesus:

  John 6:44-46 - No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws
  him. And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the
  Prophets, And they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and
  learned from the Father comes to me— not that anyone has seen the Father
  except he who is from God; he has seen the Father. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Draw Me Close | feat. Michael Bethany | Gateway Worship

Jesus said He will not cast people out who have come to Him, and it's His
sheep who come to Him, those who follow Him:

  John 6:37 - All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes
  to me I will never cast out. (ESV)

Coming to Jesus is the requirement for not being cast out, and coming to
Jesus Christ means obedience and following Jesus.

We must receive the kingdom of God like a child - like Father God's child.
Children easily trust, believe, follow and obey their parents - they also act
like their parents. We must receive the kingdom of God like a child of God:

  Luke 18:16-22 - But Jesus called them to him, saying, Let the children come
  to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.
  Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a
  child shall not enter it. And a ruler asked him, Good Teacher, what must I
  do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good?
  No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments: Do not commit
  adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor
  your father and mother. And he said, All these I have kept from my youth.
  When Jesus heard this, he said to him, One thing you still lack. Sell all
  that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in
  heaven; and come, follow me.

Following Jesus may simply mean going to Him for mercy; asking Him for mercy
or forgiveness:

  Hebrews 4:15-16 - For we do not have a high priest who is unable to
  sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been
  tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near
  to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in
  time of need. (ESV)

Jesus' sheep follow Him:

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
  (ESV)

There are wandering sheep, too, sheep that aren't exactly making a bee-line:

  Isaiah 53:6 - All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one
  to his own way; and the LORD has laid on him the iniquity of us all. (ESV)

Coming to Jesus involves denying ourself and taking up our cross daily to
follow Him:

  Luke 9:23 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him deny
  himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 15:31 - I protest, brothers, by my pride in you, which I have
  in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die every day! (ESV)

Christ Jesus judged Paul faithful - Paul was faithful, and Jesus Christ is
Paul's Lord. Paul received mercy to become obedient. Paul received mercy
because he was acting ignorantly - behaving in a way which came from
disbelief. So then, Christ Jesus displays in Paul His perfect patience to
those who would trust in Him for eternal life and be brought from ungodliness
into godliness - disobedience into obedience.

  I Timothy 1:12-16 - I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our
  Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service, though
  formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and insolent opponent. But I
  received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief, and the grace of
  our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ
  Jesus. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance, that
  Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the
  foremost. But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the
  foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to
  those who were to believe in him for eternal life. (ESV)

You must believe:

  Romans 11:20-23 - That is true. They were broken off because of their
  unbelief, but you stand fast through faith. So do not become proud, but
  stand in awe. For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will
  he spare you. And even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief,
  will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again.

God acts for those who wait for Him:

  Isaiah 64:4 - From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye
  has seen a God besides you, who acts for those who wait for him. (ESV)

You must obey:

  John 15:1-6 - I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. Every
  branch of mine that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch
  that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you
  are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I
  in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the
  vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the
  branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much
  fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me
  he is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered,
  thrown into the fire, and burned.

Also, waiting on the LORD our strength is renewed:

  Isaiah 40:31 - but they who wait for the LORD shall renew their strength;
  they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be
  weary; they shall walk and not faint. (ESV)

We are ourselves empowered thanks to Jesus' own endurance, and that is
unlocked by having believing, obedient, trusting, following faith in Jesus
where we are being led by His Spirit, and are walking by His Spirit:

  Hebrews 12:1-3 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. (ESV)

We must put a stop to sin - it's for our own good:

  Ezekiel 18:20-21 - The soul who sins shall die. The son shall not suffer
  for the iniquity of the father, nor the father suffer for the iniquity of
  the son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the
  wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself. But if a wicked person
  turns away from all his sins that he has committed and keeps all my
  statutes and does what is just and right, he shall surely live; he shall
  not die. (ESV)

  Romans 6:23 - For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is
  eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 4:4 - Circumcise yourselves to the LORD; remove the foreskin of
  your hearts, O men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem; lest my wrath go
  forth like fire, and burn with none to quench it, because of the evil of
  your deeds. (ESV)

So I believe that Jesus saves us by giving us of His Spirit and helping us to
put sin to death, through obedient faith:

  1 John 3:4-9 - Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices
  lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away
  sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on
  sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.
  Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is
  righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of
  the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason
  the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born
  of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he
  cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. (ESV)

Walking in obedient faith is walking in forgiveness and love towards other
people, forgiveness and love that flows out from having been loved and having
been forgiven.

The faith working through love towards God and other people flows out of
believing in and accepting Jesus and His atoning sacrifice and from being
freely forgiven by Jesus.

I think the person who has arrived at this point has repented from dead work
and is now living for Jesus.

5.8.9. We must have a changed heart, which longs to serve the living God, to be
a bondservant of Jesus. AMEN!!

• Firstly, obedience is a heart attitude, so a person can have obedient
faith without any work.
• Psalms 119:34 - Give me understanding, that I may keep your law and
observe it with my whole heart. (ESV)
• Secondly, obedient action is nothing to boast about before God, because
God commanded you to do it.
• Romans 4:2 - For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something
to boast about, but not before God. (ESV)
• Thirdly, "working for God" is as step beyond obedient action.
• Paul doesn't claim his full rights in the gospel (even rights shown
by God's precepts in God's law) that He might receive reward from
God for going beyond the call of His duty:
• I Corinthians 9:12,9:15-18 - If others share this rightful claim on
you, do not we even more? Nevertheless, we have not made use of this
right, but we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way
of the gospel of Christ. But I have made no use of any of these
rights, nor am I writing these things to secure any such provision.
For I would rather die than have anyone deprive me of my ground for
boasting. For if I preach the gospel, that gives me no ground for
boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to me if I do not
preach the gospel! For if I do this of my own will, I have a reward,
but not of my own will, I am still entrusted with a stewardship.
What then is my reward? That in my preaching I may present the
gospel free of charge, so as not to make full use of my right in the
gospel. (ESV)

Being a slave to righteousness is essential for eternal life.

Are we slaves and/or bondservants? Both.

If Jesus entrusts us with stewardship then we must be obedient slaves to
Jesus Christ in this regard. We also are rewarded for going beyond the call
of duty - as bondservants.

  I Corinthians 9:17-18 - For if I do this of my own will, I have a reward,
  but not of my own will, I am still entrusted with a stewardship. What then
  is my reward? That in my preaching I may present the gospel free of charge,
  so as not to make full use of my right in the gospel. (ESV)

When it comes to be being saved to serve Christ, we can't boast that in some
way we earned salvation outside of God's gift/grace:

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

  Romans 11:32 - For God has consigned all to disobedience (543. apeitheia -
  willful unbelief, obstinancy, disobedience), that he may have mercy on all.
  (ESV)

Even with stewardship (being brought into service to God with a calling), we
have different gifts, a different calling. We cannot compare or boast in this
regard because we are stewards of His varied grace. We're different parts of
the body of Christ. Being a steward, we are obligated to fulfill our calling.
But, technically, we may have something to boast about if we go beyond what
is required of us.

  I Peter 4:10 - As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as
  good stewards of God's varied grace: (ESV)

Paul preaches free of charge so as not to make full use of his right in the
gospel, and understands he will be rewarded for this:

  I Corinthians 9:15-18 - But I have made no use of any of these rights, nor
  am I writing these things to secure any such provision. For I would rather
  die than have anyone deprive me of my ground for boasting. For if I preach
  the gospel, that gives me no ground for boasting. For necessity is laid
  upon me. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel! For if I do this of my
  own will, I have a reward, but not of my own will, I am still entrusted
  with a stewardship. What then is my reward? That in my preaching I may
  present the gospel free of charge, so as not to make full use of my right
  in the gospel. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 2:19 - For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting
  before our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you? (ESV)

  Galatians 6:4 - But let each one test his own work, and then his reason to
  boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor. (ESV)

We boast in Lord who has given us an area of influence. For me that might be
on GitHub, I guess, since that's where I'm writing my Bible Study. We still
hope that this influence spreads and the gospel message is taken further.

  II Corinthians 10:12-18 - Not that we dare to classify or compare ourselves
  with some of those who are commending themselves. But when they measure
  themselves by one another and compare themselves with one another, they are
  without understanding. But we will not boast beyond limits, but will boast
  only with regard to the area of influence God assigned to us, to reach even
  to you. For we are not overextending ourselves, as though we did not reach
  you. We were the first to come all the way to you with the gospel of
  Christ. We do not boast beyond limit in the labors of others. But our hope
  is that as your faith increases, our area of influence among you may be
  greatly enlarged, so that we may preach the gospel in lands beyond you,
  without boasting of work already done in another's area of influence. Let
  the one who boasts, boast in the Lord. For it is not the one who commends
  himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends. (ESV)

Boasting should never be with selfish ambition:

  James 3:14 - But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your
  hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth. (ESV)

We are all stewards of God's varied grace so there is obligation to serve one
another:

  I Peter 4:10 - As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as
  good stewards of God's varied grace: (ESV)

  Romans 13:8 - Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one
  who loves another has fulfilled the law. (ESV)

We shouldn't be deterred from using the word "slave" by the bad connotations
of the word "slave" when we're talking about being a "slave to righteousness"
or a "slave to God".

  I Corinthians 7:22 - For he who was called in the Lord as a slave is a
  freedman of the Lord. Likewise he who was free when called is a slave of
  Christ. (ESV)

God gives us the new heart when we seek to have that new heart.

To be saved we need to have an obedient heart to God.

Will to do God's will - will to be obedient, and God will give you the heart
to obey Him.

When you trust Jesus, you will to do His will.

Living as a new Creation in Christ means God has given you the heart to
desire to obey Jesus' commandments. We are under Christ's law.

It means, through the power of the Holy Spirit, to no longer practice lying,
adultery, idolatry, and covetousness, and to no longer dishonour our parents,
and to now honour Jesus Christ in our lives and bodies.

It's going from disobedience to God (as Adam was disobedient) to obedience to
God (as Christ is obedient):

  Romans 15:17-18 - In Christ Jesus, then, I have reason to be proud of my
  work for God. For I will not venture to speak of anything except what
  Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience—by
  word and deed,

  I Corinthians 7:19 - For neither circumcision counts for anything nor
  uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. (ESV)

Faith works through love; we must be like Jesus - exercising sacrificial,
merciful love. The term 'new creature' is used in Galatians 6 after saying we
must 'put sin to death and do good', sowing to the spirit and not to the
flesh. Sowing to the Spirit is obediently following Jesus:

  Galatians 6:7-8 - Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one
  sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will
  from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will
  from the Spirit reap eternal life. (ESV)

Faith is obedient. Love is applied faith in Jesus:

  Galatians 5:6 - For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision
  counts for anything, but only faith working through love. (ESV)

  Galatians 6:15 - For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. (ESV)

Talk
youtube.com: No changed life salvation? Refuting Free Grace and @jacksmack77

Grace is free, but a person must become obedient - God gives the heart to
obey, but a person must desire to do God's will to receive it.

  Revelation of John 22:3 - No longer will there be anything accursed, but
  the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will
  worship him. (ESV)

I believe that becoming the righteousness of God is initially instantaneous
when we believe but going forward it also is cooperative as we live,
submitting to the righteousness of God (Jesus' righteousness) and then being
found in Jesus, letting Jesus wash us, and work in us, transform us, and that
a childlike trust in Jesus (a believing and obedient trust), following Jesus,
walking in faith, and behaving as one of God's children, following Jesus our
Lord and Saviour is how we receive and walk into the kingdom which is given
to us and that walking in a childlike faith in Jesus is how we have the
righteousness that is by faith. I believe we have righteousness because we
are found in Him, and He is our High Priest and or Lord and King, and
Saviour. Living by faith is a lifestyle to be found in Jesus and that's how
we have righteousness from Him, because we are found in Him and are being
perfected and sanctified like a branch getting healthier because it's
connected to Jesus. It does not mean we are able to displace Him as the head
of the body because we don't have righteousness apart from Him (as far as I
understand):

  II Corinthians 5:21-6:1 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no
  sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Working
  together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God
  in vain. (ESV)

We must live for the will of God:

  I Peter 4:1-2 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the
  flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the
  flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. (ESV)

If a person doesn't obey Jesus and His commandments then they probably are
not saved because they either deny they have the spiritual circumcision which
causes us to obey, or they do not have the heart to obey and receive
salvation - so they are a goat, not a sheep.

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

5.8.10. Doing the will of God

The will of God:

• Arrive at maturity and fully assured in all the will of God
• We must look at what all of the will of God is for us and endeavour
to be mature and fully assured with all of it
• Colossians 4:12 - Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of
Christ Jesus, greets you, always struggling on your behalf in
his prayers, that you may stand mature and fully assured in all
the will of God. (ESV)
• Be transformed by the renewal of your mind
• Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed
by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is
the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)
• We must take every thought captive to be obedient to Christ
• II Corinthians 10:5-6 - We destroy arguments and every lofty
opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every
thought captive to obey Christ, being ready to punish every
disobedience, when your obedience is complete. (ESV)
• We want our mind to be the mind of Christ
• I Corinthians 2:16 - For who has understood the mind of the
Lord so as to instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.
(ESV)
• Be a servant of Christ
• Ephesians 6:6 - not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers,
but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,
(ESV)
• Give thanks in all circumstances
• I Thessalonians 5:18 - give thanks in all circumstances; for this is
the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. (ESV)

  Mark 3:35 - Whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and
  mother. (ESV)

  Romans 8:27 - And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the
  Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will
  of God. (ESV)

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 1:1 - Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of
  Christ Jesus, and our brother Sosthenes, (ESV)

  II Corinthians 1:1 - Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God,
  and Timothy our brother, To the church of God that is at Corinth, with all
  the saints who are in the whole of Achaia: (ESV)

  II Corinthians 8:5 - and this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves
  first to the Lord and then by the will of God to us. (ESV)

  Ephesians 1:1 - Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, To the
  saints who are in Ephesus, and are faithful in Christ Jesus: (ESV)

Be a servant of Christ:

  Ephesians 6:6 - not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as
  servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, (ESV)

  Colossians 1:1 - Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and
  Timothy our brother, (ESV)

Arrive at maturity and fully assured in all the will of God:

  Colossians 4:12 - Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus,
  greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers, that you may
  stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 4:3 - For this is the will of God, your sanctification:
  that you abstain from sexual immorality; (ESV)

Give thanks in all circumstances:

  I Thessalonians 5:18 - give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the
  will of God in Christ Jesus for you. (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:1 - Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God
  according to the promise of the life that is in Christ Jesus, (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:36 - For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done
  the will of God you may receive what is promised. (ESV)

Doing good = holding to our confession and maintaining godly behaviour:

  I Peter 2:15 - For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should
  put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. (ESV)

  I John 2:17 - And the world is passing away along with its desires, but
  whoever does the will of God abides forever. (ESV)

5.8.11. Work may be burned up, and the person who has a believing and obedient
heart is still saved

This person worked - served God - and this verse guarantees that the one who
tried to work for God is still saved:

  1 Corinthians 3:15 - If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss,
  though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire. (ESV)

5.8.12. Forever abiding is believing and being a disciple, a servant

  John 15:4-8 - Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by
  itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in
  me. I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him,
  he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. If
  anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch and withers;
  and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. If you
  abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will
  be done for you. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit
  and so prove to be my disciples.

We don't try to save our worldly life. We seek the Kingdom of God:

  John 12:20-26 - Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were
  some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee,
  and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew;
  Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them, The hour
  has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you,
  unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone;
  but if it dies, it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and
  whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If
  anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there will my servant
  be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. (ESV)

AMEN!!

Obey God, obey Jesus. This doesn't say that obeying the 10 commandments is
not important. To love God and your neighbour in truth from the heart is the
way to do this. But Mark 10:17-21 does say that following Jesus (treasuring
Jesus, His words and putting them into practice) is vitally important:

  Mark 10:17-21 - And as he was setting out on his journey, a man ran up and
  knelt before him and asked him, Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit
  eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is
  good except God alone. You know the commandments: Do not murder, Do not
  commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud,
  Honor your father and mother. And he said to him, Teacher, all these I have
  kept from my youth. And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him,
  You lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and
  you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.

5.9. God opens the eyes to see the light of the gospel

Sovereign God, looks into dead, glory-ignoring heart and says, "Let there be
light!"

  II Corinthians 4:3-6 - And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled only
  to those who are perishing. In their case the god of this world has blinded
  the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the
  gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. For what we
  proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your
  servants for Jesus' sake. For God, who said, Let light shine out of
  darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the
  glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

youtube.com: The Gospel of the Glory of Christ

5.10. Gospel

Amen
youtube.com: The Holy Spirit took over my preaching in Las Vegas and left me
in awe and trembling

We are being saved by the gospel as we hold fast to the word:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

By the grace of God, Christ died for our sins:

  I Corinthians 15:3-8 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. (ESV)

By the grace of God we are transformed as we work out our salvation, and it's
the grace of God working:

  I Corinthians 15:9-11 - For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be
  called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace
  of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the
  contrary, I worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the
  grace of God that is with me. Whether then it was I or they, so we preach
  and so you believed. (ESV)

Message
youtube.com: C S Lewis message 2024 - Faith in action God fights for you, but
you must also act

The Good News of Jesus Christ is the power of God for salvation (stress:
power of God for salvation) to everyone who believes:

• salvation from sin, and
• eternal life in Christ Jesus.

We have to repent and believe:

  Mark 1:14-15 - Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee,
  proclaiming the gospel of God, and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the
  kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the gospel. (ESV)

We have to believe and obey the Truth. We have to agree with the word of God,
and allow God to correct our beliefs and behaviour:

  John 17:17-19 - Sanctify them in the truth; Your word is truth. As you sent
  me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I
  consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth. (ESV)

We have to be corrected by the word of God:

  II Timothy 3:16-17 - All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable
  for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in
  righteousness, that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every
  good work. (ESV)

For those who believe, it is the power of God for salvation:

  Romans 1:16 - For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of
  God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to
  the Greek. (ESV)

The power of God works in us to sanctify us! We must realise that, that the
gospel is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes.

We have believing, obedient faith in the powerful working of God:

  Colossians 2:12 - having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were
  also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who
  raised him from the dead. (ESV)

God works his power mightily towards those who believe:

  Ephesians 1:19 - and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward
  us who believe, according to the working of his great might (ESV)

Our faith should rest in the power of God - we should know God's power
experientially:

  I Corinthians 2:5 - that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but
  in the power of God. (ESV)

Paul toils, struggling with all God's energy that God works powerfully within
him:

  Colossians 1:29 - For this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he
  powerfully works within me. (ESV)

Paul could noticeably see the power working within him and the others:

  Ephesians 3:20 - Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all
  that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us, (ESV)

The true gospel comes in power:

  I Thessalonians 1:5 - because our gospel came to you not only in word, but
  also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. You know
  what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake. (ESV)

By the power of God, we share in suffering for the gospel:

  II Timothy 1:8 - Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our
  Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by the
  power of God, (ESV)

The gospel allows us to become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped
the lusts of the world:

  II Peter 1:3-4 - seeing that His divine power has granted to us everything
  pertaining to life and godliness, through the true knowledge of Him who
  called us by His own glory and excellence. For by these He has granted to
  us His precious and magnificent promises, so that by them you may become
  partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in
  the world by lust. (NASB)

youtube.com: Assurance for Battle @time: 18 min 2 sec
If you don't fight you're probably not born again. At least, if you go on and
on and on and on, slipping away from the vigilance of faith and fighting sin
and the devil, you got no reason to think you're saved. Doesn't really matter
what you prayed a long time ago, doesn't matter what card you signed. Doesn't
matter. Baptism doesn't matter, what your parents did… Salvation is real.
It's real! It's real! It's the work of God in a human heart, and there are
effects from it, and one of the effects is when the lion comes you fight. I'm
a believer and he will keep me safe through faith - that He, Himself works in
me.

Some people will deny the power of the gospel:

  II Timothy 3:1-7 - But understand this, that in the last days there will
  come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of
  money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful,
  unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal,
  not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of
  pleasure rather than lovers of God (5377. philotheos), having the
  appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people. For
  among them are those who creep into households and capture weak women,
  burdened with sins and led astray by various passions, always learning and
  never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth. (ESV)

Jesus Christ bore the punishment for our iniquity to bring us peace with God:

  Isaiah 53:5 - But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for
  our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and
  with his stripes we are healed. (ESV)

We must yield to Jesus. The Spirit we receive causes and helps us to obey.
Our obedience is accredited to God working through us:

  Ezekiel 11:19-20 - And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will
  put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give
  them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules
  and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. (ESV)

Jesus does work through us as we are believing in Him:

  Philippians 2:13 - for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work
  for his good pleasure. (ESV)

Jesus makes it clear that the ones who believe do the same works He does:

  John 14:12 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also
  do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I
  am going to the Father. (ESV)

We have always obeyed, participating in the Spirit, having one mind, that of
a servant - God works through us:

  Philippians 2:1-13 - So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any
  comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and
  sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love,
  being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit,
  but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of
  you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of
  others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus,
  who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a
  thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a
  servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form,
  he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death
  on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the
  name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee
  should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue
  confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
  Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my
  presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear
  and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for
  his good pleasure. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 3:6-8 - I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth.
  So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who
  gives the growth. He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will
  receive his wages according to his labor. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: John Fischer - Naphtali - 09 Live in the Power

'Believing obedience' produces work.

We are saved through faith - it's not our own doing - it's not a result of
works - the works are a gift:

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

Whoever trusts in Jesus Christ shouldn't perish, but they should have eternal
life. We've just got to have faith in Jesus:

  John 3:16-21 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever (G3956 pas) believes (G4100 pisteuo) in him should not perish but
  have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn
  the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever
  believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned
  already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God.
  And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people
  loved the darkness rather than the light because their deeds were evil. For
  everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the
  light, lest his deeds should be exposed. But whoever does what is true
  comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his deeds have been
  carried out in God. (ESV)

The gospel involves having believing and obedient heart. The entrypoint is
believing in Jesus Christ to be saved - that itself is an act of obedience.

  John 6:28-29 - Then they said to him, What must we do, to be doing the
  works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you
  believe (G4100 pisteuo) in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

The obedience of heart:

• having of faith in Jesus and Jesus' name.

The obedience produces work:

• carrying out deeds done in God.
• coming to the light.

If belief and obedience can even be separated, I think being saved starts
with belief or obedience and arrives at both belief and obedience. Belief and
obedience are both fundamental qualities of faith.

Notice how just after John 3:16 it says, "whoever does what is true comes to
the light."

Whoever has faith in and puts their trust in in Jesus Christ is not condemned
and should not perish.

We have always obeyed - God works through us:

  Philippians 2:12-13 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out
  (katergazomai) your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God
  who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. (ESV)

We must honour Jesus Christ:

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and
  believes (G4100 pisteuo) him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come
  (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed from death to life.

I believe John 5:24 is a true statement and that it should not be read
outside of the words Jesus said directly before it (Whoever does not honor
the Son does not honor the Father who sent him).

We do not nullify the rest of what Jesus has commanded of and asked of us. If
Jesus is your judge, then I think it's wise to take on board the rest of what
Jesus has said:

  Philippians 1:15-22 - Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but
  others from good will. The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put
  here for the defense of the gospel. The former proclaim Christ out of
  rivalry, not sincerely but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment. What
  then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is
  proclaimed, and in that I rejoice. Yes, and I will rejoice, for I know that
  through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ this will
  turn out for my deliverance, as it is my eager expectation and hope that I
  will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now as always Christ
  will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. For to me to live
  is Christ, and to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means
  fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose I cannot tell.

We're not justified through the works of the law but through faith, and faith
involves obedience to Jesus Christ:

  Galatians 2:15-16 - “We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the
  Gentiles; nevertheless knowing that a man is not justified by the works of
  the Law but through faith in Christ Jesus, even we have believed in Christ
  Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works
  of the Law; since by the works of the Law no flesh will be justified.

It's by faith in Christ that we are justified, and faith involves active
belief, active trust - obedience (of the heart).

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in the Son has eternal life;
  whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God
  remains on him. (ESV)

Verses such as this demonstrate the holy justice of God. God nearly put Moses
to death:

  Exodus 4:24-26 - At a lodging place on the way the LORD met him and sought
  to put him to death. Then Zipporah took a flint and cut off her son's
  foreskin and touched Moses' feet with it and said, Surely you are a
  bridegroom of blood to me! So he let him alone. It was then that she said,
  A bridegroom of blood, because of the circumcision. (ESV)

Thus so (Houtōs) (in this way) did God love (25. agapaó - value,treasure) the
world, that He gave His Only-Begotten (G3439. monogenēs - unique,only
begotten) Son that (G2443 hina - in order that) everyone who is
trusting/believing in Him may not perish, but may have life everlasting:

biblehub.com 3-16.htm: John 3:16 Interlinear: for God did so love the world,
that His Son – the only begotten – He gave, that every one who is believing
in him may not perish, but may have life age-during.

|  3778   1063 25       3588    2316  3588    2889      5620
|  Houtōs gar  ēgapēsen ho      Theos ton     kosmon    hōste
|  Οὕτως  γὰρ  ἠγάπησεν ὁ       Θεὸς  τὸν     κόσμον  , ὥστε
|  Thus   for  loved     -      God   the     world     that
|  Adv    Conj V-AIA-3S Art-NMS N-NMS Art-AMS N-AMS     Conj
| 
|  3588    5207    3588    3439          1325
|  ton     Huion   ton     monogenē      edōken
|  τὸν     Υἱὸν  , τὸν     μονογενῆ  ,   ἔδωκεν  ,
|   the     Son     the     only begotten He gave
|   Art-AMS N-AMS   Art-AMS Adj-AMS       V-AIA-3S
|  
|   2443    3956     3588    4100      1519 846
|   hina    pas      ho      pisteuōn  eis  auton
|   ἵνα     πᾶς      ὁ       πιστεύων  εἰς  αὐτὸν
|   so that everyone  -      believing in   Him
|   Conj    Adj-NMS  Art-NMS V-PPA-NMS Prep PPro-AM3S
|  
|   3361 622           235  2192        2222  166
|   mē   apolētai      all’ echē        zōēn  aiōnion
|   μὴ   ἀπόληται  ,   ἀλλ’ ἔχῃ         ζωὴν  αἰώνιον  .
|   not  should perish but  should have life  eternal
|   Adv  V-ASM-3S      Conj V-PSA-3S    N-AFS Adj-AFS

It's faith in the heart which we need; obedience to Jesus Christ and belief
in Jesus Christ in the heart, and belief and obedience to God who has raised
from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and
raised for our justification.

  John 3:16 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in him should not perish but have eternal
  life. (ESV)

|  :  4100  pisteuo  pist-yoo'-o
| 
|   from 4102; to have faith (in, upon, or with respect to, a person or
|   thing), i.e. credit; by implication, to entrust (especially one's
|   spiritual well-being to Christ):--believe(-r), commit (to trust), put
|   in trust with.
|   see GREEK for 4102

|  :  166  aionios  ahee-o'-nee-os
| 
|   from 165; perpetual (also used of past time, or past and future as
|   well):--eternal, for ever, everlasting, world (began).
|   see GREEK for 165

|  :  2222  zoe  dzo-ay'
| 
|   from 2198; life (literally or figuratively):--life(-time). Compare
|   5590.
|   see GREEK for 2198
|   see GREEK for 5590

  1 John 3:23 - And this is his commandment, that we believe in the name of
  his Son Jesus Christ and love one another, just as he has commanded us.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 22:37-39 - And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God
  with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is
  the great and first commandment. And a second is like it: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. (ESV)

Jesus Christ is the Son of the Living God. Believing on His name is God's
will for us, and loving one another is God's will for us as He has commanded.
There is more that Jesus has commanded us, too.

The promise to Gentiles:

  Galatians 3:8 - And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the
  Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In
  you shall all the nations be blessed. (ESV)

  Genesis 12:3 - I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you
  I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.
  (ESV)

Because Abraham obeyed God's voice:

  Genesis 22:18 - and in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be
  blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. (ESV)

Repentance from sin, repentance from disbelief, and coming to the light are
absolutely part of the gospel!

  1 Corinthians 15:1-4 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you-unless you
  believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also
  received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures,
  that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with
  the Scriptures, (ESV)

  John 8:34-35 - Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone
  who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house
  forever; the son remains forever.

The grace given to Paul allowed him to turn from his evil ways and pursue
Jesus, working diligently for Jesus. Therefore, the grace given to Paul was
not in vain, because Paul responded well to the grace:

  I Corinthians 15:10 - But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace
  toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of
  them, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me. (ESV)

  Acts 2:47 - Praising God, and having favour with all the people. And the
  Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: John Piper's Sermon with Scripture only

5.10.1. Living a godly life in Christ Jesus is part of the gospel

We are freely forgiven that we may freely forgive others out of an existing
righteous standing we have with God thanks to God paying the price of our sin
with Jesus' blood, and we may thus become the righteousness of God.

We are freely given mercy that we may freely give mercy to others out of an
existing righteous standing we have with God thanks to God paying the price
of our sin with Jesus' blood, and we may thus become the righteousness of
God.

I think that believers in Jesus Christ, those that have faith in Jesus,
arrive at doing Christ's love, fulfilling Christ's law, while affirming a
certain standard of judgement to which they are also held accountable,
derived from the original standard being God's Law, and affirming the
precepts of God are a good thing where the most important matters are
justice, mercy and faithfulness and Jesus' blood sanctifies us. We are also
supposed to speak up for the God's Truth. We should affirm sound Christian
teaching when it comes to what is sinful. Just because we may not judge
others when it comes to something sinful, that doesn't mean that God wont
judge us for practicing and affirming something sinful.

Quote from Mari Mari Emmanuel
So fear nothing, love everyone, but be firm when it comes to speaking the
truth. Truth cannot be compromised. … The one who is all love, He was sharper
than a sword; When it came to holding the Truth, fighting for the Truth, He
stood firm, never gave way, never compromised. Now that is love. If you truly
love someone, wouldn't you want them to be living in the Truth? If you truly
love the person, you will tell them, "This is right… This is wrong…"

Amen
youtube.com: The Holy Spirit took over my preaching in Las Vegas and left me
in awe and trembling

  II Timothy 3:1-7 - But understand this, that in the last days there will
  come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of
  money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful,
  unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal,
  not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of
  pleasure rather than lovers of God (5377. philotheos), having the
  appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people. For
  among them are those who creep into households and capture weak women,
  burdened with sins and led astray by various passions, always learning and
  never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth. (ESV)

Godliness (behaviour in accordance with the knowledge of the truth) has the
power to change a person's life to go from being selfish to selfless.

We have knowledge of the truth through obedience to the gospel.

5.10.2. Faith is disqualified in people who disregard the teachings - they
never arrive at the knowledge of the truth

  II Timothy 3:8-12 - Just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these men
  also oppose the truth, men corrupted in mind and disqualified regarding the
  faith. But they will not get very far, for their folly will be plain to
  all, as was that of those two men. You, however, have followed my teaching,
  my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my
  steadfastness, my persecutions and sufferings that happened to me at
  Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra—which persecutions I endured; yet from
  them all the Lord rescued me. Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life
  in Christ Jesus will be persecuted, (ESV)

  Galatians 2:14 - But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the
  truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before them all, If you, though a
  Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles
  to live like Jews? (ESV)

  II Timothy 3:12-13 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, while evil people and impostors will go on from
  bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. (ESV)

People who go astray:

• suffering wrong as the wage for their wrongdoing.
• they count it pleasure to revel in the daytime.
• they are blots and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions, while they
feast with you.
• they have eyes full of adultery, insatiable for sin.
• They entice unsteady souls.
• They have hearts trained in greed.
• Accursed children! Forsaking the right way, they have gone astray.

God forgive us and grant us sanctification. I know I still have issues, and I
want to put to death the sensuality:

  II Peter 2:1-22 - But false prophets also arose among the people, just as
  there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in
  destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing
  upon themselves swift destruction. And many will follow their sensuality,
  and because of them the way of truth will be blasphemed. And in their greed
  they will exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is
  not idle, and their destruction is not asleep. For if God did not spare
  angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to
  chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment; if he did not
  spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness,
  with seven others, when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly;
  if by turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them
  to extinction, making them an example of what is going to happen to the
  ungodly; and if he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual
  conduct of the wicked (for as that righteous man lived among them day after
  day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he
  saw and heard); then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials,
  and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment, and
  especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise
  authority. Bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the
  glorious ones, whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not
  pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord. But these,
  like irrational animals, creatures of instinct, born to be caught and
  destroyed, blaspheming about matters of which they are ignorant, will also
  be destroyed in their destruction, suffering wrong as the wage for their
  wrongdoing. They count it pleasure to revel in the daytime. They are blots
  and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions, while they feast with you.
  They have eyes full of adultery, insatiable for sin. They entice unsteady
  souls. They have hearts trained in greed. Accursed children! Forsaking the
  right way, they have gone astray. They have followed the way of Balaam, the
  son of Beor, who loved gain from wrongdoing, but was rebuked for his own
  transgression; a speechless donkey spoke with human voice and restrained
  the prophet's madness. These are waterless springs and mists driven by a
  storm. For them the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved. For,
  speaking loud boasts of folly, they entice by sensual passions of the flesh
  those who are barely escaping from those who live in error. They promise
  them freedom, but they themselves are slaves of corruption. For whatever
  overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved. For if, after they have escaped
  the defilements of the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior
  Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome, the last state
  has become worse for them than the first. For it would have been better for
  them never to have known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to
  turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them. What the true
  proverb says has happened to them: The dog returns to its own vomit, and
  the sow, after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire. (ESV)

  John 8:34-35 - Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone
  who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house
  forever; the son remains forever.

5.11. Be a disciple of Jesus to be set free and abide forever

• To be Jesus' disciple, we must abide in Jesus' word / obey His
commandments.
• Have love for one another.
• Love Jesus as He loved us.
• Carry our cross:
• bear one-another's burdens.
• renounce all that we have.
• Put following Jesus before all else.
• To come to know the truth, we must be Jesus' disciple.
• To be set free, we must know the truth.

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all
  people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

  John 8:31-36 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, If you
  abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth,
  and the truth will set you free. They answered him, We are offspring of
  Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say, You
  will become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone
  who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house
  forever; the son remains forever. So if the Son sets you free, you will be
  free indeed. (ESV)

  Luke 9:23-24 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him
  deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would
  save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will
  save it. (ESV)

  Luke 14:26 - If anyone comes to me and does not hate (3404. miseó, 3404
  miséō – properly, to detest (on a comparative basis); hence, denounce; to
  love someone or something less than someone (something) else, i.e. to
  renounce one choice in favor of another.) his own father and mother and
  wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he
  cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

  Luke 14:27 - Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot
  be my disciple. (ESV)

If someone exhibits love toward others, learns and lives the expectations
unearthed in Scripture, denies self in all situations, has as their first
relational allegiance Jesus Christ, and will die for the cause of Christ,
then they can rest assured, they are a disciple of Jesus Christ.

See:

• https://rickhowerton.wordpress.com/2015/05/06/you-are-my-disciple-if-the-five-ifs-of-a-disciple/

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now having been freed from sin and enslaved to God,
  you derive your benefit, resulting in sanctification, and the outcome,
  eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is
  eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (NASB)

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its
  end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God
  is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

  Romans 6:7 - For one who has died has been set free from sin. (ESV)

5.11.1. The high cost of following Christ

Billy Graham said here, "Change your mind and He will change your heart."

Sermon
youtube.com: The High Cost of Following Christ | Billy Graham Classic Sermon

  Matthew 13:44 - The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field,
  which a man found and covered up. Then in his joy he goes and sells all
  that he has and buys that field. (ESV)

We are supposed to treasure people, that is true. But Jesus has to be our
number 1. Jesus is worth more than anyone or anything. Marriage cannot be
idolatry. God is worth more and needs to come first.

  Matthew 10:37 - Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy
  of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
  (ESV)

  Luke 14:26-33 - If anyone comes to me and does not hate (3404. miseó, 3404
  miséō – properly, to detest (on a comparative basis); hence, denounce; to
  love someone or something less than someone (something) else, i.e. to
  renounce one choice in favor of another.) his own father and mother and
  wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he
  cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after
  me cannot be my disciple. For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does
  not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete
  it? Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all
  who see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not
  able to finish. Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war,
  will not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand
  to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand? And if not, while
  the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms
  of peace. So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he
  has cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

Do not love the world:

• do not love desires of the flesh, and
• do not love the desires of the eyes, and
• do not love pride in possessions

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

  Romans 12:1 - I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God,
  to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God,
  which is your spiritual worship. (ESV)

  Matthew 24:9-13 - Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you
  to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then
  many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. And many
  false prophets will arise and lead many astray. And because lawlessness
  will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures
  to the end will be saved. (ESV)

Do not resist the one who is evil - but do good to them:

• Romans 12:21 - Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
(ESV)
• if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also
• if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as
well
• if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles
• Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would
borrow from you
• Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you

  Matthew 5:38-48 - You have heard that it was said, An eye for an eye and a
  tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But
  if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if
  anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well.
  And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. Give to the
  one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you.
  You have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate
  (3404. miseó, 3404 miséō – properly, to detest (on a comparative basis);
  hence, denounce; to love someone or something less than someone (something)
  else, i.e. to renounce one choice in favor of another.) your enemy. But I
  say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that
  you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun rise
  on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust.
  For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even
  the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers, what
  more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? You
  therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect. (ESV)

With Jesus' commandments in mind, we should have joy when the time of testing
happens and things are taken away from us. It can take a really long time.
But we need to not shrink back. I'm also speaking to myself.

  Hebrews 10:34-39 - For you had compassion on those in prison, and you
  joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you
  yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one. Therefore do not
  throw away your confidence, which has a great reward. For you have need of
  endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what
  is promised. For, Yet a little while, and the coming one will come and will
  not delay; but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks
  back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who shrink
  back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their
  souls. (ESV)

We must draw closer to Jesus and seek Jesus first and trust Jesus because to
be in relationship with God is the most important thing. To not be in
relationship with God is to abide in death:

  Matthew 6:31-33 - Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat?
  or What shall we drink? or What shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after
  all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all.
  But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these
  things will be added to you. (ESV)

We are commanded to reject the idols to treasure God first. If we do this
then we draw near to God and God draws near to us:

  II Corinthians 6:17-18 - Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate
  from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome
  you, and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to
  me, says the Lord Almighty. (ESV)

  Psalms 73:25-28 - Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on
  earth that I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is
  the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are
  far from you shall perish; you put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to
  you. But for me it is good to be near God; I have made the Lord GOD my
  refuge, that I may tell of all your works. (ESV)

  James 4:7-10 - Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he
  will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse
  your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be
  wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and
  your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt
  you. (ESV)

I'd like to point out for the following excerpt that just because faith and
repentance are gifted to us from God doesn't mean that we wait for it before
trying to will to have faith or to repent - i.e. it may seem as though we
initiated it at the time.

youtube.com: Is repentance an aspect of faith, or is repentance a good work?
{@ligonier} @time: 3 min 34 sec

PARSONS: It is important that we distinguish between an act and 'works'. The
word "work" or "works" in the New Testament is language that the Apostle Paul
uses and others use in reference to things that we do in order to earn our
salvation, things that we do that sort of either initiate with us, begin with
us, things that we do to earn our salvation. (That language of work or works
is different than something we do.)

We do repent, we do believe, but we have to understand why we believe and why
we repent. It's Romans 2:4, I believe, that Paul says, "Don't you know that
it's the kindness of God that's meant to lead you to repentance?" So, do we
repent? Yes. Is it something we do? Is it an act? Yes. Is it a work,
technically? No, it is something that God by His kindness leads us to, just
as He grants us the gift of faith according to Ephesians 2:8-10. The entirety
of the believer's conversion and coming to the Lord, of course, is all of
grace.

LAWSON: And repentance is a sovereign gift that God gives us as well. He
gives both saving faith and repentance. That's why God is the author of our
salvation. He provides everything. All we provide, as you said, is the sin
that we hold in our hands that was laid upon Christ.

5.11.2. Give our mind to Christ

  1 John 2:3-5 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, but whoever keeps his
  word, in him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may be sure
  that we are in him: (ESV)

We should use the Word of God to come against even arguments and opinions
which are raised against the knowledge of God. Even our thoughts must be
brought into obedience to Christ:

  II Corinthians 10:2-6 - I beg of you that when I am present I may not have
  to show boldness with such confidence as I count on showing against some
  who suspect us of walking according to the flesh. For though we walk in the
  flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our
  warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds.
  We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge
  of God, and take every thought captive to obey Christ, being ready to
  punish every disobedience, when your obedience is complete. (ESV)

"ready to punish every disobedience, when your obedience is complete" I think
means to even be ready to come against slip-ups.

  Proverbs 16:32 - Whoever is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he
  who rules his spirit than he who takes a city. (ESV)

Follow God's statutes until the end. It's very blessed to do so. Allow God to
change our heart and take our idols away from us and teach us to love Him and
others as we take our thoughts captive to be obedient to Jesus:

Encouragement
youtube.com: Psalm 119:33 follow Gods statutes until the end.

For example: Having given your money away to the poor, then when the devil
typically tempts us through other people or through a dream, or whatever way,
by saying that "Christians still have their vices". Then instead of spending
money on whatever has previously been a vice, we should put that money into
God's Kingdom, and I truly believe that God sanctifies and works in us as we
choose to obey Jesus and are taught (corrected) by Jesus Himself by His
teachings. God sets up the opportunities.

1Clem prologue:1 (from the first epistle of Clement to the Corinthians)
The Church of God which sojourneth in Rome to the Church of God which
sojourneth in Corinth, to them which are called and sanctified by the will of
God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace from Almighty God
through Jesus Christ be multiplied.

  Psalms 119:1-19 - Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the
  law of the LORD! Aleph Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek
  him with their whole heart, who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways! You
  have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently. Oh that my ways may be
  steadfast in keeping your statutes! Then I shall not be put to shame,
  having my eyes fixed on all your commandments. I will praise you with an
  upright heart, when I learn your righteous rules. I will keep your
  statutes; do not utterly forsake me! How can a young man keep his way pure?
  By guarding it according to your word. Beth With my whole heart I seek you;
  let me not wander from your commandments! I have stored up your word in my
  heart, that I might not sin against you. Blessed are you, O LORD; teach me
  your statutes! With my lips I declare all the rules of your mouth. In the
  way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches. I will meditate
  on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways. I will delight in your
  statutes; I will not forget your word. Deal bountifully with your servant,
  that I may live and keep your word. Gimel Open my eyes, that I may behold
  wondrous things out of your law. I am a sojourner on the earth; hide not
  your commandments from me! (ESV)

The Apostle John is teaching Jesus' teachings. Even if we / when we sin, we
should just confess the sin we did, confess it as sin, turn away from it and
try to not cease obeying Jesus, practicing His commandments. We shouldn't be
deterred from "getting back up" when we make mistakes, but we want to
continue with a good conscience having confessed the sin as sin and
continuing endeavouring to practice Jesus' commandments, serving Jesus. We
want to be walking in the light, practicing our righteousness (obeying Jesus
who is our righteousness) with a good conscience with God:

  I John 1:5-10 - This is the message we have heard from him and proclaim to
  you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have
  fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice
  the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
  fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
  from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth
  is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
  our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not
  sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. (ESV)

  I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  (ESV)

5.12. The free gift of salvation is to be set free from sin to be a slave of
righteousness

The free gift is to be set free from sin to be a salve of righteousness -
that is received through faith, received by those who obey Jesus.

The faith that receives the free gift of salvation is obedient to Jesus.

So when the Spirit begins working in you, and you obey, you are receiving the
salvation.

Is this considered being saved by works or being saved by faith?

This is considered being saved by faith and not by works.

We must now consider ourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.
We must now present ourselves as obedient slaves to righteousness - yes,
practicing personal righteousness in accordance with Jesus Christ's
commandments.

  Romans 6 - What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may
  abound? By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you
  not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were
  baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into
  death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory
  of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been
  united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him
  in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with
  him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we
  would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free
  from sin. Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also
  live with him. We know that Christ being raised from the dead will never
  die again; death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died he
  died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God. So you
  also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.
  Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies, to make you obey their
  passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for
  unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been
  brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for
  righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not
  under law but under grace? By no means! Do you not know that if you present
  yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you
  obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to
  righteousness? But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. When you
  were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. But what
  fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now
  ashamed? The end of those things is death. But now that you have been set
  free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to
  sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death,
  but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

Therefore, to be in Christ Jesus our Lord, God puts us in and we then have a
change of mindset, presenting ourselves as obedient slaves to Jesus Christ.
Is that considered a bad thing to be a slave to righteousness? No, it's
considered as being in Christ Jesus.

The Holy Spirit in us is the gift which is in us:

  II Timothy 1:6-7 - For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift
  of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands, for God gave us
  a spirit not of fear but of power and love and self-control. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 1:21-22 - And it is God who establishes us with you in
  Christ, and has anointed us, and who has also put his seal on us and given
  us his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. (ESV)

5.12.1. Receiving the Holy Spirit

God poured out His Holy Spirit richly on us through Jesus Christ our Saviour.
This would not be possible without having sent Jesus Christ to die for our
sins and be raised for our justification. To be able to be justified is pure
grace. To be able to have faith in Jesus is pure grace. But we must put our
faith in Jesus Christ!

  Titus 3:4-7 - But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior
  appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness,
  but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal
  of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ
  our Savior, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs
  according to the hope of eternal life. (ESV)

So we should ask God to receive the Holy Spirit, and believe He will give the
Holy Spirit to us:

  Luke 11:13 - If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your
  children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to
  those who ask him! (ESV)

This says Father God gives the Holy Spirit to His children. Then we should
seek to behave as His children and ask Him for the Holy Spirit:

  I John 3:10 - By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who
  are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is
  not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. (ESV)

Who receives the Holy Spirit? The ones who obey God!

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

youtube.com: How to Seek the Holy Spirit @time: 48 min 13 sec
"If anyone keeps Jesus' word, holds fast, treasures it, in obedience, that
person will not be quenching the Spirit, that person will not be grieving the
Spirit, but will know the fullness and sweetness of fellowship with the
Father and the Son." - AMEN to that, John Piper

The Holy Spirit is received through faith:

  Galatians 3:14 - so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come
  to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through
  faith. (ESV)

We need to obey Jesus to see the life. That obedience isn't "working" but it
is "performing/carrying out" but our justification isn't contingent on
"working":

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

On the other hand, if we obey Jesus we will never see death:

  John 8:51 - Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will
  never see death. (ESV)

We receive the spirit by getting Jesus' words into us, believing them and
obeying them. Feeding on them, we get Jesus' spirit and life into us:

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (ESV)

The Spirit was given after Jesus was glorified:

  John 7:37-39 - On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up
  and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever
  believes in me, as the Scripture has said, Out of his heart will flow
  rivers of living water. Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who
  believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given,
  because Jesus was not yet glorified. (ESV)

Jesus was glorified and God glorified in Him when He laid down His life for
us and bore much fruit:

  Luke 24:26 - Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these
  things and enter into his glory? (ESV)

  John 12:23-24 - And Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of
  Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat
  falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears
  much fruit. (ESV)

  John 17:1 - When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to
  heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son that the Son
  may glorify you, (ESV)

  John 13:31 - When he had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man
  glorified, and God is glorified in him. (ESV)

This seems to show that to follow Jesus we must also lay our lives down for
Him:

  John 13:36-38 - Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus
  answered him, Where I am going you cannot follow me now, but you will
  follow afterward. Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I
  will lay down my life for you. Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life
  for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have
  denied me three times. (ESV)

So to receive the Holy Spirit:

• Have faith in Jesus,
• believe Jesus,
• obey Jesus,
• practice righteousness, and
• ask God for the Holy Spirit!
• lay your life down for Jesus

5.13. The work of the Holy Spirit

5.13.1. The Holy Spirit may teach us even before He is in us, by helping us as
He dwells with us

  John 14:16-21 - And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another
  Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world
  cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him,
  for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans;
  I will come to you. Yet a little while and the world will see me no more,
  but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. In that day you
  will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has
  my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me
  will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.
  (ESV)

5.13.2. Teaching us, leading us into the Truth

  John 16:13 - When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the
  truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he
  will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. (ESV)

  I John 2:27 - But the anointing that you received from him abides in you,
  and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing
  teaches you about everything—and is true and is no lie, just as it has
  taught you—abide in him. (ESV)

5.13.3. The fruit of the Spirit

The fruit of the Spirit are the fruit of Christ's Spirit. Christ's law is not
contrary to the fruit of the Spirit. We must also seek to fulfill Christ's
law (though it is the righteousness of Christ Himself which justifies us
before God).

  Galatians 5:22-23 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
  patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control;
  against such things there is no law. (ESV)

The fruit of the Spirit while lawful we want to encourage. If someone acts in
the fruit of the Spirit, and another person is offended then they should
apply the law of Christ when they realise their actions are harming their
family in Christ and they should stop those actions. But at the same time,
the person has maybe done nothing wrong while acting in the fruit of the
Spirit. This goes both ways. So when a person acts innocently with the fruit
of the Spirit but causes their family in Christ injury in doing so, they
should stop doing the thing which causes them injury, and seek to love them
by doing no harm to our brother or sister, even if at first our actions
seemed to us to be good:

  Romans 14:21 - It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that
  causes your brother to stumble. (ESV)

To continue those actions knowing it was harming your neighbour in Christ
would be to lack "love" or "self-control".

  Galatians 6:2 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ. (ESV)

Love is:

  I Corinthians 13:4-8 - Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or
  boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is
  not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices
  with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all
  things, endures all things. Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will
  pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass
  away. (ESV)

We shouldn't punish acting while exhibiting the fruit of the Spirit, made
with pure motivations, and place arbitrary laws against what is good,
motivated by fear, by banning the actions every time someone is offended.

But it seems that sometimes with pure motivations, we can still offend
others, and there needs to be room to "back off":

  Romans 14:17-22 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever
  thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us
  pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Do not, for the sake
  of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is
  wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to
  eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble.
  The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one
  who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. (ESV)

But causing offense without warning isn't strictly the same thing as causing
crime. Jesus continued to offend some people and be loved by others but he
committed no crime:

  Matthew 11:6 - And blessed is the one who is not offended by me. (ESV)

youtube.com: Girls told to remove Christian crosses at religious school hit
out against staff @time: 1 min 22 sec
Nobody has a right [to be not] offended, especially to not be offended when
other by other people exercising their normal rights in any liberal
democracy. And what I want to say to all the girls at this school is wear
your crosses if you have a cross turn up to school and wear that cross and
send a message to other students and to teachers and to the school in general
that this is a Christian School it is not a Marxist, woke school.

Crossing other people's boundaries, though, when we know their boundaries,
and knowing it may cause harm, though, is breaking Christ's law:

  Exodus 8:26 - But Moses said, It would not be right to do so, for the
  offerings we shall sacrifice to the LORD our God are an abomination to the
  Egyptians. If we sacrifice offerings abominable to the Egyptians before
  their eyes, will they not stone us? (ESV)

  Romans 14:21 - It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that
  causes your brother to stumble. (ESV)

We should seek to love everyone, even our enemies, but not to always agree
with our enemies, but the love we have for our enemies should always be
Christ's love and not "the devil's definition of love".

I also think it is loving to not inhibit the gospel message.

  Acts 5:29 - But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather
  than men. (ESV)

We should always love with Christ's love:

  Romans 12:20 - To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is
  thirsty, give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning
  coals on his head. (ESV)

Even if it becomes anathema to speak the truth and to live out the truth, I
would still speak God's truth and act with Christ's love to the end for the
sake of truth:

  Matthew 24:9-13 - Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you
  to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then
  many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. And many
  false prophets will arise and lead many astray. And because lawlessness
  will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures
  to the end will be saved. (ESV)

We don't want to cultivate what is opposite to the fruit of the Spirit;
things such as hate, depression, fear and anxiety, being inconsiderate,
abusiveness, unwholesomeness, faithlessness, abrasiveness and
quick-temperedness by punishing people who are prompted by the Holy Spirit to
act.

But if we are afraid we should seek to have a genuine affection for God,
loving Him with our whole heart, and seek to obey Jesus and build one another
up in love, and that should cast out fear:

  I John 4:18 - There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear.
  For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been
  perfected in love. (ESV)

  Romans 14:17-20 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever
  thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us
  pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Do not, for the sake
  of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is
  wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. (ESV)

Christ's Spirit is selfless and bears one another's burdens, and considers
others more significant than themselves:

  Philippians 2:3 - Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count
  others more significant than yourselves. (ESV)

youtube.com: Hope and the Fruit of Love @time: 10 min 14 sec

One of the great obstacles to love is fear – that if you pay the price of
love, you won't get the flower of the world.

I mean the flowers of the world are very pretty. Money is pretty, and power
is pretty, and sex is pretty, and reputation is pretty, and leisure is
pretty, and comfort is pretty.

The world has lots to offer. There's a lot of flowers out there.

There are grassy meadows in the world that are tremendously attractive, and
this feeling rises up in our hearts: If you pay the price to love you won't
get as many flowers, you won't get as much grass.

And therefore we resist loving.

If you endure wrong meekly, if you renounce boasting, don't call attention to
yourselves, if we spend time and energy supplying the needs of others without
fretting over our own, if we risk making necessary reproofs that are almost
surely to be interpreted as unloving, if we receive reproofs without
animosity and defensiveness, if we cover a multitude of sins and put away our
list of grievances, if we rejoice when others prosper while we don't, if we
bless those who curse us, and do good to those who despise us, if we love
each other earnestly from the heart, the fear is we won't get any flowers;
our grassy Fields will turn brown on us.

And the way we are freed from that fear is to hear God say, "the flower falls
and the grass fades but my word that gave you life lasts forever and leads to
an inheritance that is unfading, imperishable, undefiled, kept in heaven for
you. You are free go ahead pay the price. It doesn't matter what they think.
It doesn't matter whether you get the flowers. If you're born of God you are
alive and you will last forever.

Amen.

In order to avoid another situation with the pandemic where there was a lack
of love (people making decisions on fear instead of on love) like the one in
2020-2021, we should not cease to maintain freedom, faith in God, peace,
forgiveness, and love for people. Let our decisions be based on love and not
fear:

  I Corinthians 16:14 - Let all that you do be done in love. (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:7 - for God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and love
  and self-control. (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:7 - For God has not given us a spirit of timidity, but of
  power and love and discipline. (NASB)

  II Timothy 1:7 - For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of
  power, and of love, and of a sound mind. (KJV)

youtube.com: Michael Ramsden - 14-15 December 2024 {@VisionChristianMediaAUS}
@time: 37 sec
Michael has been engaging with people of all backgrounds and cultures about
questions of faith for over 20 years, and has been invited to lecture in
various settings including the White House in Washington DC and NATO HQ in
Brussels in Europe.

youtube.com: Michael Ramsden - 14-15 December 2024 {@VisionChristianMediaAUS}
@time: 24 min 17 sec
And I think as we think of the current world we're in dominated by news of
COVID-19, the reason I think so many people around the world are struggling
is that for many this is the first time we've collectively faced the issue of
our own mortality, and we don't know how to respond in the light of it, so
our response has mainly been fear. Now obviously we need to be responsible in
light of everything that's going on and what's happening, but we shouldn't be
driven by fear. And even the Biblical idea of isolating yourself, you know
you read it in Leviticus 13, if you have an infectious disease put yourself
out of the camp. But that's not out of fear for yourself, that's out of love
for your neighbor, because I don't want to pass this on to anyone else, my
people, this is what I'll do, whereas a lot of our response so far has been
driven very much by fear.

5.14. Becoming a servant, humbling oneself and following Jesus is what we should
do

A religious spirit is:

• not being a servant
• neglects the weightier matters of the law: justice and mercy and
faithfulness
• an emphasis on outward appearances over inner transformation
• hypocrisy
• uses the law as a beating tool on other people
• they use the law superficially
• but are lawless in reality
• their relationship with God is really busted up - not being faithful
to God

True religion:

• focuses on purifying the heart and soul, and obeying God's commandments
in truth, accountable to God
• as far as the law is concerned
• externally prioritises justice, mercy and faithfulness
• inwardly tries to maintain a holy heart, and a relationship with God
• serving Jesus
• avoids judging people with the law to cut people down, but encourages
people to be accountable to God with it
• bear one another's burdens

We're under the law of Christ, and that shouldn't be a heavy burden:

  Matthew 23:4 - They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on
  people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with
  their finger. (ESV)

  Galatians 6:2 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ.

  I John 5:3 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

You must obey Jesus, and that is choosing light and choosing agape love
towards God and people and not towards the world or worldly things:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in the Son has eternal life;
  whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God
  remains on him. (ESV)

  Matthew 23:11-33 - The greatest among you shall be your servant. Whoever
  exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be
  exalted. But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut
  the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. For you neither enter yourselves
  nor allow those who would enter to go in. Woe to you, scribes and
  Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel across sea and land to make a single
  proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a
  child of hell as yourselves. Woe to you, blind guides, who say, If anyone
  swears by the temple, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gold of
  the temple, he is bound by his oath. You blind fools! For which is greater,
  the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred? And you say, If
  anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gift
  that is on the altar, he is bound by his oath. You blind men! For which is
  greater, the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred? So whoever
  swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it. And whoever
  swears by the temple swears by it and by him who dwells in it. And whoever
  swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by him who sits upon it.
  Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint and dill
  and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law: justice and
  mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done, without neglecting
  the others. You blind guides, straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel!
  Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of
  the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of greed and
  self-indulgence. You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and
  the plate, that the outside also may be clean. Woe to you, scribes and
  Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs, which outwardly
  appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people's bones and all
  uncleanness. So you also outwardly appear righteous to others, but within
  you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Woe to you, scribes and
  Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets and decorate
  the monuments of the righteous, saying, If we had lived in the days of our
  fathers, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of
  the prophets. Thus you witness against yourselves that you are sons of
  those who murdered the prophets. Fill up, then, the measure of your
  fathers. You serpents, you brood of vipers, how are you to escape being
  sentenced to hell? (ESV)

We must keep and accept the precepts of God over the precepts of men:

  Mark 7:6-9 - And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you
  hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but
  their heart is far from me; in vain do they worship me, teaching as
  doctrines the commandments of men. You leave the commandment of God and
  hold to the tradition of men. And he said to them, You have a fine way of
  rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition!
  (ESV)

This passage is condemning submitting to worldly / human precepts and
imploring us to submit to God's precepts. It's not condemning God's precepts
but imploring us to put to death what is against God's precepts:

  Colossians 2:20-23,3:1-6 - If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits
  of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit
  to regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch (referring to
  things that all perish as they are used)—according to human precepts and
  teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made
  religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value
  in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. If then you have been raised with
  Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the
  right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things
  that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ
  in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear
  with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. (ESV)

5.15. I believe that I should try as hard as I can to enter via the narrow gate

5.15.1. Narrow is the gate and hard is the way that leads to life

I think this shows the strait and narrow way involves repentance and
sanctification:

  Matthew 7:13-16 - Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the
  way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.
  For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie. narrow, small) and the way is hard
  (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when circumstances "rub us the wrong way" that
  make us feel confined (hemmed in); restricted to a "narrow" place) that
  leads to life, and those who find it are few. Beware of false prophets, who
  come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will
  recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or
  figs from thistles?

  Luke 13:24 - Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you,
  will seek to enter and will not be able.

The Way is Jesus Christ - believing in and becoming obedient to Jesus Christ.

It's being begotten as a servant of God, a disciple of Jesus, one of Jesus'
sheep.

Believe:

  I John 4:9 - In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God
  sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live through him.

Obey:

  I John 5:3 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

Believe and obey and treasure God and people:

In treasuring Jesus' words, keeping them, guarding them, observing them, in
Him the agape (treasuring, valuing love) has truly been perfected. Having
Jesus' teachings in us clearly should result in us walking as He did:

  I John 2:5-6 - but whoever keeps (5083. téreó) His word (G3056 logos), in
  him the love (G26 agape) of God (G2316 theos) has truly been perfected
  (G5048 teleioo). By this we know (G1097 ginosko) that we are in Him:
  whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he
  walked. (ESV)

  Jude 1:21 - keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of
  our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life.

5.15.2. Wide gate

Either of:

• Pursuing holiness without submitting to the righteousness of God
• This is denying Jesus and becoming guilty of sin by denying the
atonement
• John 15:22-23 - If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not
have been guilty of sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin.
Whoever hates me hates my Father also.
• Pursuing justification without becoming obedient to God
• This is being cast out and withering and being thrown into the fire
• John 15:5-6 - I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in
me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me
you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away
like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown
into the fire, and burned.

A person needs to have obedient, believing faith in Jesus Christ to take the
narrow gate.

These people did not believe and obey Jesus, and produced bad fruit:

  Matthew 7:13-16 - Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the
  way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.
  For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie. narrow, small) and the way is hard
  (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when circumstances "rub us the wrong way" that
  make us feel confined (hemmed in); restricted to a "narrow" place) that
  leads to life, and those who find it are few. Beware of false prophets, who
  come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will
  recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or
  figs from thistles?

Those in the following example that prophesied here who cast out demons in
Jesus' name and did many mighty works in Jesus' name,

• didn't have God as their #1 agape love, treasuring Jesus and His words,
and
• didn't in faith keep and obey Jesus' words including commandments, and
• didn't have a relationship with Jesus involving doing Jesus' words
• didn't end up coming into the will of God to do their works out of God's
will rather than their own will
• they were probably not really being truly believing and obedient of
the words Jesus spoke:

  Matthew 7:21-24 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in
  your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in
  your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew you; depart from
  me, you workers of lawlessness. Everyone then who hears these words of mine
  and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock.

We need to allow God's will to be done in us:

  Matthew 6:10 - Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. (ESV)

We need to endure in faith:

  Matthew 7:13-14 - Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the
  way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.
  For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie. narrow, small) and the way is hard
  (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when circumstances "rub us the wrong way" that
  make us feel confined (hemmed in); restricted to a "narrow" place) that
  leads to life, and those who find it are few.

These people just sat around watching Jesus but didn't obey Him:

  Luke 13:24-26 - Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell
  you, will seek to enter and will not be able. When once the master of the
  house has risen and shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and to
  knock at the door, saying, Lord, open to us, then he will answer you, I do
  not know where you come from. Then you will begin to say, We ate and drank
  in your presence, and you taught in our streets. But he will say, I tell
  you, I do not know where you come from. Depart from me, all you workers of
  evil!

We strive to enter through Jesus who is the door:

  John 10:9-16 - I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and
  will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill
  and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am
  the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He
  who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees
  the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them
  and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing
  for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me,
  just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life
  for the sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must
  bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one
  flock, one shepherd. (ESV)

youtube.com: Strive to Enter or Believe to Enter??
Apparently the author of Hebrews believes that making every effort to labor
to get into God's rest and believing in order to get into God's rest are not
incompatible partners.

|  agónizomai: to contend for a prize, struggle
|  Original Word: ἀγωνίζομαι
|  Part of Speech: Verb
|  Transliteration: agónizomai
|  Phonetic Spelling: (ag-o-nid'-zom-ahee)
|  Definition: to contend for a prize, struggle
|  Usage: I am struggling, striving (as in an athletic contest or warfare); I contend, as with an adversary.

  Matthew 7:13-14 - Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the
  way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.
  For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie. narrow, small) and the way is hard
  (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when circumstances "rub us the wrong way" that
  make us feel confined (hemmed in); restricted to a "narrow" place) that
  leads to life, and those who find it are few. (ESV)

  Luke 13:24-30 - Strive (75. agónizomai) to enter through the narrow door.
  For many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able. When once
  the master of the house has risen and shut the door, and you begin to stand
  outside and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, open to us, then he will
  answer you, I do not know where you come from. Then you will begin to say,
  We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets. But he
  will say, I tell you, I do not know where you come from. Depart from me,
  all you workers of evil (93. adikia)! In that place there will be weeping
  and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the
  prophets in the kingdom of God but you yourselves cast out. And people will
  come from east and west, and from north and south, and recline at table in
  the kingdom of God. And behold, some are last who will be first, and some
  are first who will be last. (ESV)

|  adikia: injustice, unrighteousness
|  Original Word: ἀδικία, ας, ἡ
|  Part of Speech: Noun, Feminine
|  Transliteration: adikia
|  Phonetic Spelling: (ad-ee-kee'-ah)
|  Definition: injustice, unrighteousness
|  Usage: injustice, unrighteousness, hurt.

We must hear His voice today:

  Hebrews 3:7-11 - Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, Today, if you hear his
  voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of testing
  in the wilderness, where your fathers put me to the test and saw my works
  for forty years. Therefore I was provoked with that generation, and said,
  They always go astray in their heart; they have not known my ways. As I
  swore in my wrath, They shall not enter my rest. (ESV)

Psalm 95's today is now. Today is the day to strive to enter God's rest:

  Psalms 95:6-11 - Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us kneel before
  the LORD, our Maker! For he is our God, and we are the people of his
  pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you hear his voice, do not
  harden your hearts, as at Meribah, as on the day at Massah in the
  wilderness, when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof,
  though they had seen my work. For forty years I loathed that generation and
  said, They are a people who go astray in their heart, and they have not
  known my ways. Therefore I swore in my wrath, They shall not enter my rest.
  (ESV)

youtube.com: Striving Faith: Few Pursue What Jesus Commands {Luke 13:24} -
Tim Conway @time: 32 min 27 sec
This is no small matter. All sorts of professing Christians look to enter in
based on yesterday's victories or yesterday's whatever. And they
procrastinating expect to somehow live for Christ tomorrow. This writer is
saying that neither of those types of Christianity work as far as striving
after God's rest. The Christianity of the Bible is the today kind of
Christianity.

It was unbelief which led to these people's sin of idolatry and covetousness
which prevented them from entering into God's rest:

  Hebrews 3:7-15 - Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, Today, if you hear his
  voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of testing
  in the wilderness, where your fathers put me to the test and saw my works
  for forty years. Therefore I was provoked with that generation, and said,
  They always go astray in their heart; they have not known my ways. As I
  swore in my wrath, They shall not enter my rest. Take care, brothers, lest
  there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away
  from the living God. But exhort one another every day, as long as it is
  called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
  For we share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to
  the end. As it is said, Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your
  hearts as in the rebellion. (ESV)

  Hebrews 3:16-19 - For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not
  all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for
  forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the
  wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest,
  but to those who were disobedient? So we see that they were unable to enter
  because of unbelief. (ESV)

  Hebrews 4:7-11 - again he appoints a certain day, Today, saying through
  David so long afterward, in the words already quoted, Today, if you hear
  his voice, do not harden your hearts. For if Joshua had given them rest,
  God would not have spoken of another day later on. So then, there remains a
  Sabbath rest for the people of God, for whoever has entered God's rest has
  also rested from his works as God did from his. Let us therefore strive to
  enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience.
  (ESV)

It was idolatry that was the disobedience which prevented these from entering
into God's rest:

  I Corinthians 10:1-14 - I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were
  all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized
  into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual
  food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the
  spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. Nevertheless,
  with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the
  wilderness. Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might
  not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were; as
  it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. We
  must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and twenty-three
  thousand fell in a single day. We must not put Christ to the test, as some
  of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble, as some of them
  did and were destroyed by the Destroyer. Now these things happened to them
  as an example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the
  end of the ages has come. Therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands
  take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common
  to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your
  ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape,
  that you may be able to endure it. Therefore, my beloved, flee from
  idolatry. (ESV)

If you keep Jesus' commandments then the Spirit of Truth will come to you,
and help you, and be in you. If we obey Jesus, the Holy Spirit helps us, even
before He's inside us:

  John 14:15-17 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. (ESV)

5.15.3. Obedience to Jesus has everything to do with receiving Him, and
receiving Salvation

  Hebrews 3:18 - And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest,
  but to those who were disobedient? (ESV)

  Ezekiel 33:31 - And they come to you as people come, and they sit before
  you as my people, and they hear what you say but they will not do it; for
  with lustful talk in their mouths they act; their heart is set on their
  gain. (ESV)

Jesus' sheep follow Jesus. Jesus knows them:

  John 10:25-28 - Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe.
  The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me, but you do
  not believe because you are not part of my flock. My sheep hear my voice,
  and I know them, and they follow me. But you do not believe (G4100 pisteuo)
  because you are not of My sheep. My sheep hear My voice, and I know them,
  and they follow (G190 akoloutheo) Me; and I give eternal life to them, and
  they will never perish; and no one will snatch them out of My hand. (NASB)

|  :  190  akoloutheo  ak-ol-oo-theh'-o
| 
|   from 1 (as a particle of union) and keleuthos (a road); properly, to
|   be in the same way with, i.e. to accompany (specially, as a
|   disciple):--follow, reach.
|   see GREEK for 1

The gospel teaches us to serve the Lord Jesus. Those who teach others that
the gospel does not, are deceivers, and they do not obey Jesus.

  Matthew 7:16 - You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered
  from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? (ESV)

  I Peter 5:14 - Greet one another with the kiss of love. Peace to all of you
  who are in Christ.

The gospel teaches us to serve the Lord Jesus.

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

  Romans 16:17-20 - I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who
  cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have
  been taught; avoid them. For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but
  their own appetites, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the
  hearts of the naive. For your obedience is known to all, so that I rejoice
  over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and innocent as to
  what is evil. The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The
  grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

  II Chronicles 7:14 - if my people who are called by my name humble
  themselves, and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then
  I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land.
  (ESV)

  II Corinthians 13:14 - The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of
  God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. (ESV)

5.15.4. Disobedience

Let us continue following and obeying Jesus, and not turn back:

  John 6:66 - After this many of his disciples turned back and no longer
  walked with him.

  Luke 9:62 - Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand to the plow and
  looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. (ESV)

Judas betrayed Jesus after being chosen:

  John 6:70-71 - Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you, the Twelve? And
  yet one of you is a devil. He spoke of Judas the son of Simon Iscariot, for
  he, one of the Twelve, was going to betray him.

  Hebrews 6:4-8 - For it is impossible to restore again to repentance those
  who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and have
  shared in the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the goodness of the word of God
  and the powers of the age to come, if they then fall away, since they are
  crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and holding him up
  to contempt. For land that has drunk the rain that often falls on it, and
  produces a crop useful to those for whose sake it is cultivated, receives a
  blessing from God. But if it bears thorns and thistles, it is worthless and
  near to being cursed, and its end is to be burned. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: God's Delight in Obedience

  I Samuel 15:22-23 - And Samuel said, Has the LORD as great delight in burnt
  offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold, to
  obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. For
  rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and
  idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the LORD, he has also
  rejected you from being king. (ESV)

5.15.5. The way is easy that leads to destruction

  Matthew 7:13-16 - Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the
  way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.
  For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie. narrow, small) and the way is hard
  (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when circumstances "rub us the wrong way" that
  make us feel confined (hemmed in); restricted to a "narrow" place) that
  leads to life, and those who find it are few. Beware of false prophets, who
  come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will
  recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or
  figs from thistles?

I'm not the judge. But Jesus's words which He left us will be the judge.

5.15.6. Narrow gate

  II Peter 1:5-10 - For this very reason, make every effort to supplement
  your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with
  self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with
  godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection
  with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep
  you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus
  Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is
  blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins.
  Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and
  election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall.
  (ESV)

  Hebrews 4:11 - Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one
  may fall by the same sort of disobedience. (ESV)

  Luke 13:24 - Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you,
  will seek to enter and will not be able. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 9:24-27 - Do you not know that in a race all the runners
  compete, but only one receives the prize? So run that you may obtain it.
  Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a
  perishable wreath, but we an imperishable. So I do not run aimlessly; I do
  not box as one beating the air. But I discipline my body and keep it under
  control, lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified.
  (ESV)

  Philippians 2:12-13 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your
  own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both
  to will and to work for his good pleasure. (ESV)

Asking Jesus to save me:

I can only say that salvation was a total gift for me, an unrighteous sinner.
But I'm still working it out.

5.15.7. The narrow gate vitally requires submitting to God's righteousness. We
need God's forgiveness and His justification that comes through faith

  Romans 3:21-26 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

  Romans 10:3 - For, being ignorant of the righteousness that comes from God,
  and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's
  righteousness. (ESV)

Like the following example of the tax collector, we must submit to God's
righteousness:

  Luke 18:9-14 - He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves
  that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt: Two men went up
  into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The
  Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: God, I thank you that I am not
  like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax
  collector. I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get. But the
  tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven,
  but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner! I tell you,
  this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For
  everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles
  himself will be exalted.

Jesus is the Lamb of God. We must accept God's forgiveness through faith in
Jesus:

  John 1:29 - The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, Behold,
  the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!

God's righteousness is received by faith - through obedience to the gospel:

    • Romans 3:25 - whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
      be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in
      his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. (ESV)

We must receive atonement for sin through faith.

The tax collector in the story above has an obedient and believing heart. The
tax collector has faith. It's not our own righteousness which is sufficient,
but Jesus Christ's righteousness imputed onto us when we are in Him. We must
have faith in Jesus.

5.15.8. We have to receive the Kingdom like a child. Don't resist Jesus or His
teachings - follow Jesus

I accept that I need Jesus to have mercy on me. Because my own righteousness
isn't good enough. I want to obey Jesus for the rest of my life, and live for
Him, and I trust Him because I believe His gospel. I know that the Holy
Spirit goes to those who obey Him.

  Luke 18:15-17 - Now they were bringing even infants to him that he might
  touch them. And when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus
  called them to him, saying, Let the children come to me, and do not hinder
  them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly, I say to you, whoever
  does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.

And I'm still trusting and having faith in Jesus Christ even up until now. So
while through obedience to Jesus we are saved, Jesus is still the source of
that salvation:

  Hebrews 5:9 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him,

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him.

Jesus gave us teachings:

  Luke 12:33-34 - Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide
  yourselves with moneybags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the
  heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
  For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. (ESV)

The Apostle Paul taught these teachings, and taught people to remember Jesus'
teachings:

  Acts 20:35 - In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this
  way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he
  himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. (ESV)

And the Holy Spirit helps us to follow His teaching:

  Luke 24:49 - And behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you.
  But stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high. (ESV)

Those who seek to know Jesus, following His commandments, may receive His
Spirit:

  John 14:16-21 - And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another
  Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world
  cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him,
  for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans;
  I will come to you. Yet a little while and the world will see me no more,
  but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. In that day you
  will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has
  my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me
  will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.
  (ESV)

5.15.9. We have to believe in and obey Jesus. We all fall short but we still
must have faith in Jesus

He is the Light, and He wants to give us the light of life but we have to
allow Him to lead us:

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life. (ESV)

We have to obey Jesus and take heed to all that He has said. Those who don't
take heed to His words walk in darkness:

  John 3:19 - And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world,
  and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their deeds
  were evil.

Jesus is God's Son. Jesus is the Lamb of God.

We must receive the redemption that is in Christ Jesus through faith:

  Romans 3:22-25 - the righteousness of God through faith (G4102 pistis) in
  Jesus Christ for all who believe (G4100 pisteuo). For there is no
  distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and
  are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in
  Christ Jesus, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in His blood
  through faith. This was to demonstrate His righteousness, because in the
  forbearance of God He passed over the sins previously committed;

The redemption in Christ Jesus is a gift, and is a substitutionary atonement
that is received through faith in Jesus.

As far as glory goes, or sharing in Jesus' holiness, I think in part this
works like a blood transfusion, that should be received by faith, faith which
includes the belief of faith and the obedience of faith, such as obedience to
the discipline of Christ, that should yield the peaceful fruit of
righteousness:

  II Corinthians 5:21 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin,
  so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. (ESV)

We should be sanctified by the Truth, as we trust in God, trust in Jesus,
trust in God's Word:

  John 17:8-26 - For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they
  have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and
  they have believed that you sent me. I am praying for them. I am not
  praying for the world but for those whom you have given me, for they are
  yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them.
  And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming
  to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that
  they may be one, even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in
  your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of
  them has been lost except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might
  be fulfilled. But now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the
  world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them
  your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world,
  just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the
  world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world,
  just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth; your word is
  truth. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world.
  And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in
  truth. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in
  me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are
  in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may
  believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me I have
  given to them, that they may be one even as we are one, I in them and you
  in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that
  you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they
  also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my glory
  that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the
  world. O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know
  you, and these know that you have sent me. I made known to them your name,
  and I will continue to make it known, that the love with which you have
  loved me may be in them, and I in them.

We're not being justified by our works - we've already been redeemed, and we
are justified by faith in Jesus, but we are also sanctified by faith in Jesus
Christ. God is the one who justifies:

  Romans 3:21-26 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

We must be obedient to God, we must be obedient to Jesus, repenting and
following His commandments to share His holiness:

  Hebrews 12:9-11 - Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined
  us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father
  of spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed
  best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his
  holiness. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant,
  but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have
  been trained by it. (ESV)

We're not being justified by our works - we've already been redeemed, but we
do works out of love for Jesus, and out of ongoing faith, ongoing obedience:

  Titus 3:8 - The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these
  things, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote
  themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for
  people. (ESV)

We accept that God justifies us, given we place our faith in Jesus, and that
means trusting Jesus. Then we continue following Jesus out of faithful
obedience.

All of these I believe belong under the umbrella of faith, not works:

• Taking communion is not 'dead works'. It's obedience / walking in
obedient faith.
• Getting baptised is not 'dead works'. It's obedience / walking in
obedient faith.
• Obeying Jesus Christ's commandments are not 'dead works'. It's obedience
/ walking in obedient faith.

Faith presses on, faithful to Jesus, walking in the manner which Jesus walked
- even to spend the rest of the time on earth being obedient to Jesus to know
Jesus and the power of His resurrection, becoming like Him in His death (i.e.
being faithful to God, stopping sin, exercising righteousness, becoming a
scapegoat, even to death like the Apostles, sharing in His sufferings, living
has He lived) and His resurrection:

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

God will be the judge of who has had faith in Jesus; who has obeyed Him and
who has trusted in Him and who has made Him their Lord and who has accepted
Him as their Saviour.

  John 12:48 - The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
  judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.

  Hebrews 10:10-17 - And by that will we have been sanctified through the
  offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest stands
  daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can
  never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single
  sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that
  time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a
  single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being
  sanctified. And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying,
  This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares
  the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them on their
  minds, then he adds, I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no
  more.

  Hebrews 10:26 - For if we go on sinning willfully after receiving the
  knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins,

God please forgive and heal us.

5.15.10. All judgement has been given to Jesus

We must love Jesus and follow Him. Jesus is the judge. Our obedience to Jesus
matters. Because the righteousness of God is received through faith. We are
implored to strive to follow Jesus to our best ability:

  John 5:17-29 - But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and
  I am working. This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him,
  because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God
  his own Father, making himself equal with God. So Jesus said to them,
  Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but
  only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the
  Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he
  himself is doing. And greater works than these will he show him, so that
  you may marvel. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and
  believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come (2064.
  erchomai) into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Truly, truly, I
  say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the
  voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For as the Father
  has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in
  himself. And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is
  the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who
  are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, those who have done good
  to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the
  resurrection of judgment. (ESV)

5.15.11. The gospel has to be obeyed

Read
gbtseminary.org: Cheap Grace: Bonhoeffer and the Cost of Discipleship - Grace
Bible Theological Seminary

  II Thessalonians 1:4-8 - Therefore we ourselves boast about you in the
  churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions
  and in the afflictions that you are enduring. This is evidence of the
  righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom
  of God, for which you are also suffering— since indeed God considers it
  just to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to
  you who are afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed
  from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on
  those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our
  Lord Jesus.

  I Peter 4:12-19 - Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it
  comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to
  you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may
  also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted
  for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of
  God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or
  an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him
  not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for
  judgment to begin at the household of God; and if it begins with us, what
  will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And If the
  righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the
  sinner? Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will entrust
  their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good.

Where there is perfect belief, I think there is perfect obedience. i.e. if we
hold firm to belief in Jesus, keeping and believing His sayings and obey
Jesus through testing, we have eternal life and will see life:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

I am confident also that if we hold firm to obedience in Jesus keeping and
obeying His sayings and believe Jesus through testing, we have eternal life
and will see life:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, If you
  abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth,
  and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

Bonhoeffer seems to have a very similar view to my own
Though we are not saved by our works, Bonhoeffer believes that there is a
great peril in ascribing “chronological distinctions” between belief (faith)
and obedience as some often do. He believes that if we divorce the two
(faith/obedience) we will inevitably overlook their essential unity to our
detriment. You cannot have one without the other. Bonhoeffer says it like
this, “Only he who believes is obedient, and only he who is obedient
believes.”

  Matthew 5:44-45 - But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those
  who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven;
  for He causes His sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on
  the righteous and the unrighteous.

  Matthew 5:48 - Therefore you are to be perfect, as your heavenly Father is
  perfect.

This is talking about loving fellow human beings:

  Didache Chapter 1 - … Bless those who curse you, and pray for your enemies,
  and fast for those who persecute you. For what reward is there for loving
  those who love you? Do not the Gentiles do the same? But love those who
  hate you, and you shall not have an enemy. …

We still have enemies (that is, the forces of evil, satan and satan's demons
and his fallen angels, principalities, powers etc.):

  I Peter 5:8 - Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls
  around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. (ESV)

  Ephesians 6:12 - For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against
  the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this
  present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly
  places. (ESV)

Loving all people doesn't mean approving of sin. We should speak the truth:

  Acts 24:16 - So I always take pains to have a clear conscience toward both
  God and man. (ESV)

  Romans 12:20 - To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is
  thirsty, give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning
  coals on his head. (ESV)

We want others to come to the truth:

  Acts 26:29 - And Paul said, Whether short or long, I would to God that not
  only you but also all who hear me this day might become such as I am—except
  for these chains. (ESV)

Quote from Mari Mari Emmanuel
So fear nothing, love everyone, but be firm when it comes to speaking the
truth. Truth cannot be compromised. … The one who is all love, He was sharper
than a sword; When it came to holding the Truth, fighting for the Truth, He
stood firm, never gave way, never compromised. Now that is love. If you truly
love someone, wouldn't you want them to be living in the Truth? If you truly
love the person, you will tell them, "This is right… This is wrong…"

  John 8:44 - You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your
  father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to
  do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he
  speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
  (ESV)

5.15.12. God will be the judge of who has had faith in Jesus, and who has
obeyed Him. I wouldn't take obedience lightly

  Luke 20:13-18 - Then the owner of the vineyard said, What shall I do? I
  will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him. But when the
  tenants saw him, they said to themselves, This is the heir. Let us kill
  him, so that the inheritance may be ours. And they threw him out of the
  vineyard and killed him. What then will the owner of the vineyard do to
  them? He will come and destroy those tenants and give the vineyard to
  others. When they heard this, they said, Surely not! But he looked directly
  at them and said, What then is this that is written: The stone that the
  builders rejected has become the cornerstone? Everyone who falls on that
  stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on anyone, it will crush
  him.

 1. Jesus was extremely humble here. Likewise, we should be able to recognise
that we need Him as our Lord looking over us

Also, Jesus didn't actually deny that He is good:

  Luke 18:18-19 - And a ruler asked him, Good Teacher, what must I do to
  inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good?
  No one is good except God alone.

  Isaiah 64:6 - We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our
  righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf,
  and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away. (ESV)

Nevertheless, we should follow Jesus.

5.15.13. Let us serve Jesus Christ in truth, and have confidence

  I John 3:21 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence
  before God;

  Hebrews 3:14 - For we share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original
  confidence firm to the end.

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world.

5.15.14. We must recognise that where our efforts to obey falls short, Jesus's
blood covers us. But we must still have the heart to make Jesus our Lord and
King, and be following Him

But we must be walking in the light, just as He is in the light.

  I John 1:7 - But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
  fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
  from all sin.

So the blood of Jesus covers us while we are following Him.

The Apostle John's children/disciples were walking in love while walking in
the truth, and rejecting offerings from Gentiles who were not walking in the
truth:

  III John 1:4-8 - I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are
  walking in the truth. Beloved, it is a faithful thing you do in all your
  efforts for these brothers, strangers as they are, who testified to your
  love before the church. You will do well to send them on their journey in a
  manner worthy of God. For they have gone out for the sake of the name,
  accepting nothing from the Gentiles. Therefore we ought to support people
  like these, that we may be fellow workers for the truth. (ESV)

I really affirm Christa's message:

youtube.com: THE BATTLE IS IN YOUR MIND!!

If you're asking the Lord, "Will you cleanse my will? Will you cleanse my
emotions, my heart?

"Cleanse my body with the blood of Jesus. I plead the blood of Jesus over 'so
and so'. I plead the blood of Jesus over their mind, over their heart, heal
them."

You know, if you start saying this it might really help you, okay, because
it's helped me. It has helped me tremendously. And just to encourage you all,
just renounce and cancel stuff from the enemy. close those doors, okay.

We got to lead a life of repentance and when you do that friends you are more
you are more protected, and you are more covered.

I John 1:6-9

But if you're over there and you're not coming out of agreement with sin if
you are not asking the Lord to forgive you of your sin we get be become dirty
we become spiritually dirty. And we want to become spiritually clean because
when we are spiritually clean we can hear the voice of God.

II Corinthians 7:1

When we are spiritually clean we can see the things of the lord, we can hear
things, and he can speak to us more.

We can hear him more when we are spiritually clean.

Read
desiringgod.org: Detox Your Soul | Desiring God

Walking in the light is about walking in the Truth and God's guidance, God's
will for us, God's instruction for us:

  Psalms 43:3 - Send out your light and your truth; let them lead me; let
  them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling! (ESV)

  Psalms 119:105 - Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
  (ESV)

The ones in the light agape their family in Christ:

  I John 2:9 - Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still
  in darkness. (ESV)

The ones in the light practice the truth. Confessing the truth, even the
truth of when we have sinned, that is something which people who walk in the
light (practice the truth) do:

  I John 1:6-9 - If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in
  darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the
  light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the
  blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin,
  we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins,
  he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all
  unrighteousness. (ESV)

We should be cleansing ourselves of every defilement of body, and spirit with
faith, the Word of God and the Spirit of God:

  II Corinthians 7:1 - Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse
  ourselves from every defilement of body (4561. sarx) and spirit (4151.
  pneuma), bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God. (ESV)

God cleanses our hearts as we practice our faith in Him:

  Acts 15:9 - and he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed
  their hearts by faith. (ESV)

We walk in the light (God's light, truth) in trust, faith, obedience:

  I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  (ESV)

We should be seeking Him out with our heart:

  Jeremiah 29:13 - You will seek me and find me. When you seek me with all
  your heart, (ESV)

  Proverbs 8:17 - I love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently
  find me. (ESV)

  Psalms 14:2 - The LORD looks down from heaven on the children of man, to
  see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. (ESV)

  Psalms 24:3-4 - Who shall ascend the hill of the LORD? And who shall stand
  in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not
  lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:22 - let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of
  faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our
  bodies washed with pure water. (ESV)

Jesus can see it and Jesus can heal the heart - sprinkled clean as Hebrews
|  22 says:

  Jeremiah 17:9-10 - The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately
  sick; who can understand it? I the LORD search the heart and test the mind,
  to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his
  deeds. (ESV)

When I read Jeremiah 17:9 or Romans 3:3-20, I only think of it as "falling
short", not as "total depravity". I believe people can do good and evil. But
without the atonement we can't be made perfect. This is the way I believe
that Paul the Apostle also viewed it:

  Romans 3:21-26 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

We must do good. Christians must do good. Those who are self-seeking and do
not obey the Truth, who do not obey Jesus, there will be wrath and fury:

  Romans 2:5-11 - But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are
  storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous
  judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his
  works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and
  immortality, he will give eternal life; but _for those who are self-seeking
  and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath
  and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who
  does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor and peace
  for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows
  no partiality. (ESV)

5.15.15. Do not condemn others. Speak the truth and leave judgement to the
Judge

We are allowed to say that the world's works are evil:

  John 7:7 - The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify
  about it that its works are evil. (ESV)

  John 8:16-18 - Yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for it is not I
  alone who judge, but I and the Father who sent me. In your Law it is
  written that the testimony of two men is true. I am the one who bears
  witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me.

  Luke 6:37 - , Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you
  will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven; (ESV)

Jesus is also extremely merciful to the woman who was brought before Jesus:

  John 8:10-11 - Jesus stood up and said to her, Woman, where are they? Has
  no one condemned you? She said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I
  condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more. (ESV)

5.15.16. Jesus Christ is the word of life, Jesus Christ is the eternal life

  I John 1:1-3 - That which was from the beginning, which we have heard,
  which we have seen with our eyes, which we looked upon and have touched
  with our hands, concerning the word of life— the life was made manifest,
  and we have seen it, and testify to it and proclaim to you the eternal
  life, which was with the Father and was made manifest to us— that which we
  have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have
  fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with
  his Son Jesus Christ. (ESV)

That is why we must believe in Him and obey His commandments:

  I John 5:3-5 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has been born of
  God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the
  world—our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who
  believes that Jesus is the Son of God? (ESV)

5.15.17. Simply tell the truth from God. We must not reject Jesus

  John 8:21-24 - So he said to them again, I am going away, and you will seek
  me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. So the
  Jews said, Will he kill himself, since he says, Where I am going, you
  cannot come? He said to them, You are from below; I am from above. You are
  of this world; I am not of this world. I told you that you would die in
  your sins, for unless you believe that I am he you will die in your sins.

We must follow Jesus for eternal life:

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life.

Jesus knows Father God, and Jesus keeps His word. Likewise, we must follow
Jesus and keep His word. Jesus is obedient to Father God. We must be obedient
to Jesus Christ:

  John 8:55-58 - But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say
  that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and I
  keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He
  saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years
  old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to
  you, before Abraham was, I am.

  John 10:27-29 - My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
  me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will
  snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater
  than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand.

5.15.18. Jesus is Almighty God's Son and is sitting in Power next to His Father

Jesus obeyed His Father - He willed to do His Father's will:

  Luke 22:41-42 - And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and knelt
  down and prayed, saying, Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from
  me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done. (ESV)

  John 6:38 - For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will but the
  will of him who sent me. (ESV)

Jesus obeyed Father God perfectly and became the source of salvation to all
who obey Him:

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

  John 17:19 - And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be
  sanctified in truth. (ESV)

We serve Jesus so Jesus is our Master:

  John 13:16 - Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his
  master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. (ESV)

Serving Jesus brings Father God glory:

  John 15:8 - By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so
  prove to be my disciples. (ESV)

Jesus being in the form of God took the form of the likeness of men:

  Philippians 2:5-7 - Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in
  Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality
  with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form
  of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 8:9 - For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that
  though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his
  poverty might become rich. (ESV)

Jesus was appointed by God, learned obedience and made a priest forever,
after the order of Melchizedek:

  Hebrews 5:5-10 - So also Christ did not exalt himself to be made a high
  priest, but was appointed by him who said to him, You are my Son, today I
  have begotten you; as he says also in another place, You are a priest
  forever, after the order of Melchizedek. In the days of his flesh, Jesus
  offered up prayers and supplications, with loud cries and tears, to him who
  was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence.
  Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And
  being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who
  obey him, being designated by God a high priest after the order of
  Melchizedek. (ESV)

Jesus is One with Almighty God and their will is in perfect alignment. Jesus
demonstrated perfect obedience to Father God:

  John 10:30 - I and the Father are one.

  John 5:30 - I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment
  is just, because I seek not my own will but the will of him who sent me.
  (ESV)

Father God has been working through Jesus, His Son:

  John 14:8-10 - Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is
  enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you
  still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How
  can you say, Show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father
  and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my
  own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. (ESV)

Even throughout His ministry on earth, He had power over nature - the power
of Father God:

  Mark 4:35-41 - On that day, when evening had come, he said to them, Let us
  go across to the other side. And leaving the crowd, they took him with them
  in the boat, just as he was. And other boats were with him. And a great
  windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the
  boat was already filling. But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion.
  And they woke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we are
  perishing? And he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace! Be
  still! And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. He said to them,
  Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith? And they were filled with
  great fear and said to one another, Who then is this, that even wind and
  sea obey him? (ESV)

  John 17:4 - I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you
  gave me to do. (ESV)

  John 17:7 - Now they know that everything that you have given me is from
  you. (ESV)

  Matthew 28:16-20 - Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the
  mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him they
  worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, All
  authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and
  make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and
  of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have
  commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.
  (ESV)

  Revelation of John 3:12 - The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in
  the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him
  the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem,
  which comes down from my God out of heaven, and my own new name. (ESV)

Father God keeps us in His name so that we may be one with Them:

  John 17:10-11 - All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified
  in them. And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I
  am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given
  me, that they may be one, even as we are one. (ESV)

By posing the question, Jesus doesn't deny that he is good. But we agree,
affirming what Jesus has spoken that God is good:

  Mark 10:18 - And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good
  except God alone. (ESV)

Mathetes to Diognetus
For, who of men at all understood before His coming what God is? Do you
accept of the vain and silly doctrines of those who are deemed trustworthy
philosophers? … But such declarations are simply the startling and erroneous
utterances of deceivers; and no man has either seen Him, or made Him known,
but He has revealed Himself. And He has manifested Himself through faith, to
which alone it is given to behold God. For God, the Lord and Fashioner of all
things, who made all things, and assigned them their several positions,
proved Himself not merely a friend of mankind, but also long-suffering [in
His dealings with them.] Yea, He was always of such a character, and still
is, and will ever be, kind and good, and dispassionate (free from wrath), and
true, and the only one who is [absolutely] good; and He formed in His mind a
great and unspeakable conception, which He communicated to His Son alone. As
long, then, as He held and preserved His own wise counsel in concealment, He
appeared to neglect us, and to have no care over us. But after He revealed
and laid open, through His beloved Son, the things which had been prepared
from the beginning, He conferred every blessing all at once upon us, so that
we should both share in His benefits, and see and be active [in His service].
Who of us would ever have expected these things? He was aware, then, of all
things in His own mind, along with His Son, according to the relation
subsisting between them.

I believe there is only one good shepherd, and that is Jesus Christ, Immanuel
(God with us, God incarnate, and not merely in the flesh, but the Word became
flesh):

  John 10:14-15 - I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me,
  just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life
  for the sheep. (ESV)

  I Peter 2:24-25 - He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we
  might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been
  healed. For you were straying like sheep, but have now returned to the
  Shepherd and Overseer of your souls. (ESV)

  Hebrews 13:20-21 - Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead
  our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the
  eternal covenant, equip you with everything good that you may do his will,
  working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to
  whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. (ESV)

  John 1:14 - And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen
  his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and
  truth. (ESV)

Jesus makes intercession for those who draw near to God through Him:

  Hebrews 7:25 - Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who
  draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession
  for them.

Likewise, the Holy Spirit is Almighty God:

  Isaiah 48:16-17 - Draw near to me, hear this: from the beginning I have not
  spoken in secret, from the time it came to be I have been there. And now
  the Lord GOD has sent me, and his Spirit. Thus says the LORD, your
  Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am the LORD your God, who teaches you
  to profit, who leads you in the way you should go. (ESV)

  Acts 5:3-4 - But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to
  lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds
  of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And
  after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have
  contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 3:16-17 - And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from
  the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the
  Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him; and behold,
  a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well
  pleased. (ESV)

Immanuel or Emmanuel is a Hebrew name that appears in Isaiah 7:14 as a sign
that God will protect the House of David:

  Matthew 1:21-23 - She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus,
  for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill
  what the Lord had spoken by the prophet: Behold, the virgin shall conceive
  and bear a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel (which means, God
  with us). (ESV)

  Matthew 1:24-25 - When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the
  Lord commanded him: he took his wife, but knew her not until she had given
  birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus. (ESV)

  Isaiah 7:10-20 - Again the LORD spoke to Ahaz, Ask a sign of the LORD your
  God; let it be deep as Sheol or high as heaven. But Ahaz said, I will not
  ask, and I will not put the LORD to the test. And he said, Hear then, O
  house of David! Is it too little for you to weary men, that you weary my
  God also? Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the
  virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel. He
  shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose
  the good. For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose the
  good, the land whose two kings you dread will be deserted. The LORD will
  bring upon you and upon your people and upon your father's house such days
  as have not come since the day that Ephraim departed from Judah—the king of
  Assyria. In that day the LORD will whistle for the fly that is at the end
  of the streams of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria.
  And they will all come and settle in the steep ravines, and in the clefts
  of the rocks, and on all the thornbushes, and on all the pastures. In that
  day the Lord will shave with a razor that is hired beyond the River—with
  the king of Assyria—the head and the hair of the feet, and it will sweep
  away the beard also. (ESV)

  Romans 12:9-21 - Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what
  is good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in
  showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the
  Lord. Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer.
  Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. Bless
  those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them. Rejoice with those
  who rejoice, weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do
  not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be conceited. Repay no
  one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of
  all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all.
  Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it
  is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. To the
  contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him
  something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his
  head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. (ESV)

  Genesis 2:18 - Then the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should
  be alone; I will make him a helper fit for him. (ESV)

Quote from Billy Graham
Jesus said, "Seek Jesus ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness,
and all these things shall be added unto you." Put God first. God will take
care of the rest. But if you put money and pleasure and power first you're
going to be deceived, you're going to come up empty, you're going to come up
short-handed.

  Philippians 1:9-10 - And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and
  more, with knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve what is
  excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, (ESV)

This quite clearly shows that Jesus Christ is Almighty God:

  Zechariah 12:10 - And I will pour out on the house of David and the
  inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and pleas for mercy, so that,
  when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for
  him, as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him, as one
  weeps over a firstborn. (ESV)

  Colossians 2:9 - For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily,
  (ESV)

youtube.com: The Historic Baptist View of the Nicene Creed @time: 10 min 4
sec
Affirming the Nicene Creed has been a historic uncontroversial Baptist
conviction. What is happening today is that some Baptists are falling away a
little bit from our own roots and so we need reform.

I affirm the Nicene creed wholeheartedly:

|  We believe in one God,
|        the Father almighty,
|        maker of heaven and earth,
|        of all things visible and invisible.
| 
|  And in one Lord Jesus Christ,
|        the only-begotten Son of God,
|        begotten from the Father before all ages,
|             God from God,
|              Light from Light,
|              true God from true God,
|         begotten, not made;
|         of the same essence as the Father.
|         Through him all things were made.
|         For us and for our salvation
|              he came down from heaven;
|              he became incarnate by the Holy Spirit and the virgin Mary,
|              and was made human.
|              He was crucified for us under Pontius Pilate;
|              he suffered and was buried.
|              The third day he rose again, according to the Scriptures.
|              He ascended to heaven
|              and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
|              He will come again with glory
|              to judge the living and the dead.
|              His kingdom will never end.
|  
|   And we believe in the Holy Spirit,
|         the Lord, the giver of life.
|         He proceeds from the Father and the Son,
|         and with the Father and the Son is worshiped and glorified.
|         He spoke through the prophets.
|         We believe in one holy catholic and apostolic church.
|         We affirm one baptism for the forgiveness of sins.
|         We look forward to the resurrection of the dead,
|         and to life in the world to come. Amen.

AMEN!!

I affirm the Apostles' creed wholeheartedly:

|  I believe in God, the Father almighty,
|        creator of heaven and earth.
|  I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord,
|        who was conceived by the Holy Spirit
|        and born of the virgin Mary.
|        He suffered under Pontius Pilate,
|        was crucified, died, and was buried;
|        he descended to hell.
|        The third day he rose again from the dead.
|         He ascended to heaven
|         and is seated at the right hand of God the Father almighty.
|         From there he will come to judge the living and the dead.
|  
|   I believe in the Holy Spirit,
|         the holy catholic* church,
|         the communion of saints,
|         the forgiveness of sins,
|         the resurrection of the body,
|         and the life everlasting. Amen.
|  
|   *that is, the true Christian church of all times and all places

AMEN!!

  II Corinthians 13:14 - The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of
  God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: "Agnus Dei" with Michael W Smith & the First Dallas Choir &
Orchestra

  Hebrews 1:3 - He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint
  of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After
  making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty
  on high,

Jesus proceeded forth from Father God, and returned to Father God:

  John 16:28 - I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I
  am leaving the world and going to the Father. (ESV)

Jesus Christ is with us in Spirit:

  Matthew 28:18-20 - And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven
  and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all
  nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the
  Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And
  behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age. (ESV)

Jesus' Spirit may be inside us!

  Galatians 4:4-9 - But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth
  his Son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under
  the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are
  sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba!
  Father! So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir
  through God. Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to
  those that by nature are not gods. But now that you have come to know God,
  or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and
  worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be
  once more? (ESV)

  John 14:26 - But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in
  my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all
  that I have said to you. (ESV)

Jesus is sitting in power:

  Hebrews 1:13 - And to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right
  hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet?

The Holy Spirit is a Person:

  John 16:13 - When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the
  truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he
  will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. (ESV)

If the Holy Spirit dwells in you, you are in the Spirit, not in the flesh:

  Romans 8:9 - You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in
  fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit
  of Christ does not belong to him. (ESV)

Holy Spirit has emotions:

  Isaiah 63:10 - But they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit; therefore he
  turned to be their enemy, and himself fought against them. (ESV)

The Spirit of God is God although He belongs to God.

Holy Spirit speaks:

  II Samuel 23:2-4 - The Spirit of the LORD speaks by me; his word is on my
  tongue. The God of Israel has spoken; the Rock of Israel has said to me:
  When one rules justly over men, ruling in the fear of God, he dawns on them
  like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning,
  like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. (ESV)

Father God, the LORD, God Almighty the Judge of all the earth has a form:

  John 5:37-38 - And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about
  me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you
  do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he
  has sent. (ESV)

  Genesis 18:1-5 - And the LORD appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, as he
  sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day. He lifted up his eyes
  and looked, and behold, three men were standing in front of him. When he
  saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them and bowed himself to the
  earth and said, O Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by
  your servant. Let a little water be brought, and wash your feet, and rest
  yourselves under the tree, while I bring a morsel of bread, that you may
  refresh yourselves, and after that you may pass on—since you have come to
  your servant. So they said, Do as you have said. (ESV)

  Genesis 18:25 - Far be it from you to do such a thing, to put the righteous
  to death with the wicked, so that the righteous fare as the wicked! Far be
  that from you! Shall not the Judge of all the earth do what is just? (ESV)

Not only does Father God have children, but Jesus is His Only-Begotten Son:

  Deuteronomy 14:1 - You are the sons of the LORD your God. You shall not cut
  yourselves or make any baldness on your foreheads for the dead. (ESV)

youtube.com: What Makes Jesus UNIQUE Amongst The Sons of God? {@DRMSH} @time:
4 min 0 sec
No, no, Jesus is called the monogenēs (G3439) for a very specific reason;
what makes Jesus unique among all other sons of God? He's Yahweh. He has the
unique set of attributes of Yahweh. He was the son who preexisted his birth.
Okay, that one is the one that God sent to be an offering for sin. None of
the other ones, that one. So you can have multiple sons of God who are
supernatural beings, that doesn't impinge on the uniqueness of Jesus anymore
that it impinges on the uniqueness of Yahweh, because Jesus is the Son. Okay,
Trinitarian Godhead thing.

  John 3:16 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only (G3439
  monogenés) Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have
  eternal life. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:17 - By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and
  he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only
  (G3439 monogenés) son, (ESV)

youtube.com: What Makes Jesus UNIQUE Amongst The Sons of God? {@DRMSH} @time:
3 min 4 sec
Question; was Isaac, Abraham's only son? No, he'd already had a boy, Ishmael.
In fact, Isaac wasn't even the firstborn. At least of all Abraham's sons.
He's the firstborn of Sarah. But why would Isaac be called monogenēs? Why
would Isaac be unique? It's because he was the son of Sarah by supernatural
act of God and he was the inheritor of the covenant. None of Abraham's other
sons could say that. Okay, what's the point? The point is that the term means
unique, and we can see that in this parallel. This is why Isaac is
specifically isolated, it doesn't mean the only one that exists.

youtube.com: Why Does It Matter That Christ Was 'Begotten, Not Made'?
{@desiringGod} @time: 2 min 44 sec

I think a compelling case can be made biblically from the first 14 verses of
the Gospel of John. That phrase begotten not made is biblical. So John begins
like this in the beginning was the word and the word was with god and the
word was God. He (this word is a person) was in the beginning with God. All
things were made through Him and without Him was not anything made that was
made.

That's verses 1 through 3 of John 1. And then he adds [in] verse 14: That
Word, the Word, became flesh - so we're talking Jesus Christ - that Word
became flesh and dwelt among us and we have seen His glory, glory as of the
Only (and the Old King James said, 'Only-Begotten' - i'll come back to that)
Son. So what I'm focusing on here is sonship is introduced. What he called
Word in verse 1, he called Son in verse 14. Son from the father full of grace
and truth. Now, there's a good deal of dispute over whether the Greek term
monogenés means Only Son or Only-Begotten Son. Now here's the catch, and I
want all just ordinary run-of-the-mill faithful pastors and teachers to take
heart, I don't think the truth of the doctrine of begotten not made depends
on the translation of that verb. If it did, we would we would be in the
middle of a dispute that continues. What is essential is that in the first
three verses of this gospel the Word of God is said to be God and to be with
God: In the beginning was the Word and the Word was God and the Word was with
God, meaning you have two Persons, God and the Word of God, and the second
Person the Word of God is God and with God. And then it says that through the
Word everything was made that was made, and that precise wording rules out
the possibility that the Word of God itself was made because everything that
is in the category of made or coming into being was in fact brought into
being (was made) by the Word, which means He's not in that category, he was
not made. Then verse 14 uses sonship language - quite apart from whether you
say Only Son or Only-Begotten Son - He's Son. Sonship language to describe
the relationship between God and the Word. Not only is the Word God, the Word
is also Son of God, which means that what is said about the Word applies to
the Son, and what was said about the word was he was not made.

So how then does the Son exist? As Son. Not as Father, but as Son. If we just
stay with the language of Son and Father, the answer would be not made but
begotten - that's what Sons are. Sons are begotten; That's what it means to
be the son of a father. But this begetting of the Son clearly then is very
unique, I mean it's really different because this Son, this Word had no
beginning.

In the beginning was God, the Word of God was there and God was there and the
two of them were eternally there. God was the Word, the Word was God, they
had no beginning.

He was always there with God as God. So the text itself pushes us to the
conclusion that the peculiar kind of begetting that we're talking about is an
eternal begetting.

There never was a time when the Son did not exist and yet He is Son, and not
Father. They're not reversible, ever in the New Testament. And the Christian
church is right to argue that it is fitting to speak of this eternally
existent Son who is God and yet is not the Father.

He has been eternally begotten by the Father - not coming into being but
eternally begotten. So the point stressed but biblically and confessionally
is that eternal begetting of the Son secures the Son's very same exact nature
with the Father. That's the point of Hebrews 1:3. He is the radiance of the
glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. Or Philippians 2:6. Though
he was in the form of god he did not count equality with God a thing to be
grasped.

Now C.S. Lewis was really criticized for trying to make things understandable
for ordinary people but most of us bless him for it, right? Right, and here's
what he wrote: when you beget you beget something of the same kind as
yourself. A man begets human babies, a beaver begets little beavers and a
bird begets eggs which turn into little birds. But when you make you make
something different a different kind from yourself, a bird makes a nest, a
beaver builds a dam, a man makes a wireless set … the Son is not a creature,
He's not made, He's not different from the very essence and nature of God.

  Colossians 1:19-20 - For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to
  dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth
  or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. (ESV)

youtube.com: Why Does It Matter That Christ Was 'Begotten, Not Made'?
{@desiringGod} @time: 13 min 21 sec
If the Son of God was made instead of being eternally begotten, in the very
nature of God, we are still in our sins, and biblical salvation does not
exist.

  Hebrews 1:3 - He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint
  of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After
  making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty
  on high, (ESV)

This video is pretty awesome
youtube.com: Did Anyone Believe in the Trinity Before Nicea?

Likewise, this video was also reassuring
youtube.com: Was The Trinity Made Up By The Council Of Nicea? {@DRMSH}

I affirm the doctrine of the Trinity:

  Thus, the Son is not one-third of the being of God; he is all of the being
  of God. The Father is not one-third of the being of God; he is all of the
  being of God. And likewise with the Holy Spirit. Thus, as Wayne Grudem
  writes, “When we speak of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit together we are
  not speaking of any greater being than when we speak of the Father alone,
  the Son alone, or the Holy Spirit alone” (Ibid., 252).

  There is only one God. If each Person of the Trinity is distinct and yet
  fully God, then should we conclude that there is more than one God?
  Obviously we cannot, for Scripture is clear that there is only one God:
  “There is no other God besides me, a righteous God and a Savior; there is
  none besides me. Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth! For I
  am God, and there is no other”.

  Zechariah 12:10 - And I will pour out on the house of David and the
  inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and pleas for mercy, so that,
  when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for
  him, as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him, as one
  weeps over a firstborn. (ESV)

  Isaiah 45:21-22 - Declare and present your case; let them take counsel
  together! Who told this long ago? Who declared it of old? Was it not I, the
  LORD? And there is no other god besides me, a righteous God and a Savior;
  there is none besides me. Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the
  earth! For I am God, and there is no other. (ESV)

  Isaiah 44:6-8 - Thus says the LORD, the King of Israel and his Redeemer,
  the LORD of hosts: I am the first and I am the last; besides me there is no
  god. Who is like me? Let him proclaim it. Let him declare and set it before
  me, since I appointed an ancient people. Let them declare what is to come,
  and what will happen. Fear not, nor be afraid; have I not told you from of
  old and declared it? And you are my witnesses! Is there a God besides me?
  There is no Rock; I know not any. (ESV)

Holy Spirit is Lord:

  II Corinthians 3:18 - And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory
  of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of
  glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. (ESV)

Jesus was with Father God in the beginning:

  Proverbs 8:22-36 - The LORD (3068. Yhvh) possessed me at the beginning of
  his work, the first of his acts of old. Ages ago I was set up, at the
  first, before the beginning of the earth. When there were no depths I was
  brought forth, when there were no springs abounding with water. Before the
  mountains had been shaped, before the hills, I was brought forth, before he
  had made the earth with its fields, or the first of the dust of the world.
  When he established the heavens, I was there; when he drew a circle on the
  face of the deep, when he made firm the skies above, when he established
  the fountains of the deep, when he assigned to the sea its limit, so that
  the waters might not transgress his command, when he marked out the
  foundations of the earth, then I was beside him, like a master workman, and
  I was daily his delight, rejoicing before him always, rejoicing in his
  inhabited world and delighting in the children of man. And now, O sons,
  listen to me: blessed are those who keep my ways. Hear instruction and be
  wise, and do not neglect it. Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching
  daily at my gates, waiting beside my doors. For whoever finds me finds life
  and obtains favor from the LORD, but he who fails to find me injures
  himself; all who hate me love death. (ESV)

  John 1:1-2 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. (ESV)

  Exodus 15:11 - Who is like you, O LORD, among the gods? Who is like you,
  majestic in holiness, awesome in glorious deeds, doing wonders? (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 4:35 - To you it was shown, that you might know that the LORD
  is God; there is no other besides him. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 6:4-5 - Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God, the LORD is one. You
  shall love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and
  with all your might. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 32:39 - See now that I, even I, am he, and there is no god
  beside me; I kill and I make alive; I wound and I heal; and there is none
  that can deliver out of my hand. (ESV)

  I Samuel 2:2 - There is none holy like the LORD; there is none besides you;
  there is no rock like our God. (ESV)

  I Kings 8:60 - that all the peoples of the earth may know that the LORD is
  God; there is no other. (ESV)

AMEN!!

Song
youtube.com: He is Jehovah | by Betty Jean Robinson

Lyrics

He is Jehovah, God of creation.; He is Jehovah, Lord God almighty.; The Balm
of Gilead, the Rock of Ages.; He is Jehovah, the God that healeth thee.

He is the great I Am, the God of Abraham,; Jehovah Shalom, the God peace I
am.; The God of Israel, the Everlasting One.; He is Jehovah, the God that
healeth thee.

Sing hallelujah, sing hallelujah,; Sing hallelujah, sing hallelujah.; He is
Jehovah, Lord God almighty.; He is Jehovah, the God that healeth thee.

I am your Provider, Jehovah Jireh; God of salvation, God of Messiah; My Son
who came to you, and testified of him.; He is Jehovah, the God that healeth
thee.

Jehovah is God Almighty:

  Exodus 6:3 - I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, as God
  Almighty, but by my name the LORD I did not make myself known to them.
  (ESV)

Exodus 6:3 (Interlinear)
and I appear unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, as God Almighty; as to
My name Jehovah, I have not been known to them;

YHWH is Father God:

  Matthew 6:9 - Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your
  name. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 4:11 - Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive
  glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will
  they existed and were created. (ESV)

  Ezekiel 36:23 - And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which
  has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among
  them. And the nations will know that I am the LORD, declares the Lord GOD,
  when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. (ESV)

  Ezekiel 37:13-15 - And you shall know that I am the LORD (3068. Yhvh), when
  I open your graves, and raise you from your graves, O my people. And I will
  put my Spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your
  own land. Then you shall know that I am the LORD; I have spoken, and I will
  do it, declares the LORD. The word of the LORD came to me: (ESV)

  Psalms 111:9 - He sent redemption to his people; he has commanded his
  covenant forever. Holy and awesome is his name! (ESV)

Isaiah 64:8 (Interlinear)
But now Yahweh our Father You [are] we [are] the clay and You our potter and
the work of Your hand we all [are]

  Isaiah 64:8 - But now, O LORD, you are our Father; we are the clay, and you
  are our potter; we are all the work of your hand. (ESV)

When God revealed His name, He also revealed what His name means:

  Exodus 3:13-15 - Then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel
  and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask
  me, What is his name? what shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I AM WHO
  I AM. And he said, Say this to the people of Israel, I AM has sent me to
  you. God also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel, The LORD
  (3068. Yhvh), the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of
  Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever,
  and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. (ESV)

Knowing God coincides with keeping His word. I think that if we're having
trouble understanding the Godhead, we should try to keep God's word:

  John 8:54-58 - Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It
  is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say, He is our God. But you have
  not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would
  be a liar like you, but I do know him and I keep his word. Your father
  Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. So the
  Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen
  Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham
  was, I am. (ESV)

God wants us to know Him and obey Him and to do good as He has commanded:

  Hosea 6:5-8 - Therefore I have hewn them by the prophets; I have slain them
  by the words of my mouth, and my judgment goes forth as the light. For I
  desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than
  burnt offerings. But like Adam they transgressed the covenant; there they
  dealt faithlessly with me. Gilead is a city of evildoers, tracked with
  blood. (ESV)

  James 1:22 - But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving
  yourselves. (ESV)

  Psalms 90:2 - Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had
  formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting you are
  God. (ESV)

John 1:18 (Interlinear)
God no one has seen ever yet [the] only begotten God the [One] being in the
bosom of the Father He has made [Him] known

  Exodus 3:15 - God also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel, The
  LORD (3068. Yhvh), the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of
  Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever,
  and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. (ESV)

Jesus referred to God as Father:

  Mark 14:36 - And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you.
  Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will. (ESV)

Father God put the Spirit of His Son into our heart:

  Galatians 4:6 - And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his
  Son into our hearts, crying, Abba! Father! (ESV)

And we are adopted:

  Romans 8:15-16 - For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back
  into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we
  cry, Abba! Father! The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we
  are children of God, (ESV)

Jesus also taught us to call the same God our God and Father:

  John 20:17 - Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet
  ascended to the Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, I am
  ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. (ESV)

We're supposed to do God's will. It's our food to do God's will:

  John 12:27 - Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me
  from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. (ESV)

  John 4:34 - Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent
  me and to accomplish his work. (ESV)

Jesus and Father God are very close:

  John 12:28 - Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven: I
  have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. (ESV)

  John 5:19 - So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can
  do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For
  whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. (ESV)

Jesus pre-existed before Creation:

  John 1:3 - All things were made through him, and without him was not any
  thing made that was made. (ESV)

  John 17:5,24 - And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the
  glory that I had with you before the world existed. Father, I desire that
  they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my
  glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of
  the world. (ESV)

5.15.19. Faith and law-keeping as a Christian

When it comes to following the law as a Christian, it's a matter of being
accountable to God personally over our own commitment to law adherence while
we follow and adhere to Jesus first and foremost, but we should be being
sanctified by obedience to the Truth, so we should be becoming more holy and
loving and coming to imitate Jesus.

John Piper on Faith and Law-Keeping
youtube.com: How Our Faith and Law-Keeping Work Together in the Christian
Life

  II Corinthians 3:18 - And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory
  of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of
  glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. (ESV)

  Romans 2:11-12 - For God shows no partiality. For all who have sinned
  without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned
  under the law will be judged by the law. (ESV)

Even Christians as children of the promise are supposed to keep the way of
the LORD so that the LORD may bring to Abraham what He has promised to him:

  Genesis 18:17-19 - The LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about
  to do, seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation,
  and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him? For I have chosen
  him, that he may command his children and his household after him to keep
  the way of the LORD by doing righteousness and justice, so that the LORD
  may bring to Abraham what he has promised him. (ESV)

  Romans 9:6-8 - But it is not as though the word of God has failed. For not
  all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel, and not all are
  children of Abraham because they are his offspring, but Through Isaac shall
  your offspring be named. This means that it is not the children of the
  flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are
  counted as offspring. (ESV)

God is still collecting children of the promise, children of God:

  Hebrews 11:13 - These all died in faith, not having received the things
  promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having
  acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. (ESV)

Fear of God is not only about having the heart to repent from sin and "beat
hand on chest and ask God for mercy", but it is also having a changed heart,
endeavoring to please Christ with our actions:

  II Corinthians 5:6-11 - So we are always of good courage. We know that
  while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord, for we walk by
  faith, not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be
  away from the body and at home with the Lord. So whether we are at home or
  away, we make it our aim to please him. For we must all appear before the
  judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what
  he has done in the body, whether good or evil. Therefore, knowing the fear
  of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I
  hope it is known also to your conscience. (ESV)

Disbelief causes disobedience. Disbelief caused the Israelites to not walk in
obedience:

  Hebrews 3:16-19 - For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not
  all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for
  forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the
  wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest,
  but to those who were disobedient? So we see that they were unable to enter
  because of unbelief. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:13 - though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and
  insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in
  unbelief, (ESV)

Jesus was pleased with some of the Israelites here. But we must learn from
the example here so that we still walk in righteousness and desire to do good
and not evil according to God's precepts but also called to literally not
practice evil either, but most importantly to not desire evil/to do evil:

  I Corinthians 10:1-10 - I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were
  all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized
  into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual
  food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the
  spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. Nevertheless,
  with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the
  wilderness. Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might
  not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were; as
  it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. We
  must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and twenty-three
  thousand fell in a single day. We must not put Christ to the test, as some
  of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble, as some of them
  did and were destroyed by the Destroyer. (ESV)

  Hebrews 3:16-19 - For some, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not
  all that came out of Egypt by Moses. But with whom was he grieved forty
  years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcases fell in the
  wilderness? And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest,
  but to them that believed not? So we see that they could not enter in
  because of unbelief. (KJV)

It's not "having (having possession of) the law" which counts, but "doing
it". I think this part of Romans is really talking about how the Law of God
is effectively used to judge people. And what's interesting is that it seems
as though, through Christ Jesus, God judges the secrets of men, and that
happens to all people:

  Romans 2:12-16 - For all who have sinned without the law will also perish
  without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by
  the law. For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God,
  but the doers (4163. poiétés) of the law who will be justified. For when
  Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they
  are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show
  that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience
  also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse
  them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of
  men by Christ Jesus. (ESV)

In those who walk according to the Spirit, the righteous requirement of the
law might be fulfilled:

  Romans 8:3-4 - For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could
  not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin,
  he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of
  the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but
  according to the Spirit. (ESV)

With regards to those that have faith in Christ Jesus, this be thought of as
doing the law (loving one another) shows evidence for or confirming a
person's faith in Jesus. I honestly believe that obedience and faith are not
mutually exclusive, so in obeying Jesus God may make the person born again,
and God may justify them. That's up to God. I think that's fine. God tests
the hearts:

  Romans 3:26 - It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that
  he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

We certainly still will to do the will of God after being saved:

  Matthew 22:36-40 - Teacher, which is the great commandment in the Law? And
  he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and
  with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first
  commandment. And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as
  yourself. On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets.
  (ESV)

  Romans 2:13 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before
  God, but the doers (4163. poiétés) of the law who will be justified. (ESV)

We of course may be imperfect doers of the law, especially as Christians
because we are justified by our faith in Jesus:

Quote by John Piper
A person today may be a doer of the law who trusts Jesus as the only basis of
their justification before God, who in the power of that faith by the Spirit
walks in a manner worthy of the LORD and then at the last judgement Christ
will be the basis of our acceptance - Christ alone, the basis of our
acceptance with the Father and our life of obedience doing the law will be
brought in to confirm that our faith was real, because faith works through
love. So "doing the law" will not be the basis of our being in God's favour,
but the evidence that we are trusting Christ, united to Christ, and thus
necessary at the last day.

AMEN!! This has totally been my stance, but John Piper hit the nail on the
head with this one.

We can certainly "be obedient to God's commandments" and that is "doing":

  I Peter 1:14-16 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy. (ESV)

  Titus 3:3 - For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray,
  slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and
  envy, hated by others and hating one another. (ESV)

  James 1:22 - But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving
  yourselves. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:31 - By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who
  were disobedient, because she had given a friendly welcome to the spies.
  (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
The only sin that you can conquer in life is a forgiven sin. The only sin
that you can successfully strive against without incurring the judgement of
God on your legalism is a forgiven sin. This is glorious. It's a glorious way
to become holy.

That's really cool. I think what John Piper says here using the word
'legalism' is that upon confessing a sin and affirming the sinfulness of that
sin (if I were to confess that I consider X to be sinful), and I want to
repent from the sin, if Jesus has forgiven it, Jesus has also given us the
grace to be healed and set free from it.

  Acts 13:39 - from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses. (ESV)

  Romans 6:16-18 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone
  as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But
  thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient
  from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,
  and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.
  (ESV)

Remember that sin enslaves. Jesus' blood sets us free from sin. Jesus sets us
free.

Quote by John Piper
Namely, that the only sin that can be successfully fought is a forgiven sin.
And not only that, but also since the forgiveness has been secured infallibly
by the blood of Jesus, the fight will be successful.

Perfect obedience though is something Jesus reached but I certainly have not:

  Philippians 2:8 - And being found in human form, he humbled himself by
  becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. (ESV)

The nations have a form of God's law written on our hearts:

  Romans 2:14-16 - For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do
  what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do
  not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their
  hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting
  thoughts accuse or even excuse them on that day when, according to my
  gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. (ESV)

  Romans 3:28-29 - For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from
  works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of
  Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, (ESV)

  Romans 5:1-2 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also
  obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice
  in hope of the glory of God. (ESV)

There is no problem with keeping the law to your level of commitment
accountable to God, but we should not feel under the law that we must keep
all of it all the time. Also, our obedience to the law is not what justifies
us:

  Galatians 5:3-4 - I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision
  that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ,
  you who would be justified by the law; you have fallen away from grace.
  (ESV)

Those who annul and teach others to annul the law will be 'called' least in
the kingdom. It's not humility to do so. They're teaching people against
bearing good fruit.

We should not forsake Jesus as our Master:

  Jude 1:4 - For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were
  designated for this condemnation, ungodly people, who pervert the grace of
  our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.
  (ESV)

  Jude 1:4 - For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of
  old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of our
  God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our Lord Jesus
  Christ. (KJV)

We certainly should not forsake the higher precepts of the law - mercy,
justice and faithfulness:

  Matthew 23:23 - Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of
  the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done,
  without neglecting the others. (ESV)

We certainly should not annul and teach others to annul the Great
Commandments or the 10 Commandments:

  I Corinthians 7:19 - For neither circumcision counts for anything nor
  uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. (ESV)

It's prideful to say that God is wrong, Jesus behaved badly and that the Law
is wrong, and we shouldn't love God and our neighbour:

  Galatians 5:6 - For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision
  counts for anything, but only faith working through love. (ESV)

Love is the fulfillment of the law. Love does the commandments of God that
the law requires. The person who does them can be described as a doer of the
law:

  Romans 13:8 - Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one
  who loves another has fulfilled the law. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
That's who we are as Christians. When we walk according to the Spirit, we
fulfill the just requirement of the law. That is, we keep the commandments,
we love. We are doers of the law. Not sinlessly perfect law-keepers. Nobody
is nor anybody has been except Jesus, which is why we depend on Him, but
rather, radically transformed people, through faith, in the power of the Holy
Spirit, leaning on the grace of God that comes to us through Jesus Christ.

AMEN!!

Jesus' atonement means that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in
us who walk according to the Spirit - keeping the commandments of God:

  Romans 8:3-4 - For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could
  not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin,
  he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of
  the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but
  according to the Spirit. (ESV)

Teaching others to not obey Jesus' commandments and to not obey the 10
Commandments is teaching people against walking by the Spirit.

Teaching others to break the law is teaching bad behaviour.

  Romans 2:6-7 - He will render to each one according to his works: to those
  who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he
  will give eternal life; (ESV)

It refuses to acknowledge sin and it refuses to agree with God and it refuses
to acknowledge loving God and one another, and it refuses to acknowledge
holiness and being a living sacrifice for God:

  Luke 1:5-6 - In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named
  Zechariah, of the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughters
  of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before
  God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord.
  (ESV)

Jesus, the original Apostles and the founding fathers of Christianity still
taught us to keep the 2 Great commandments and the 10 Commandments which is
sound doctrine:

• I Corinthians 7:19 - Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is
nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God. (KJV)

So long as we hold faith in Christ, we're no longer victims of the curse of
the law (which is to rely on keeping the full law perfectly to avoid being
cursed):

  Galatians 3:10-13 - For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse;
  for it is written, Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things
  written in the Book of the Law, and do them. Now it is evident that no one
  is justified before God by the law, for The righteous shall live by faith.
  But the law is not of faith, rather The one who does them shall live by
  them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for
  us—for it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree— (ESV)

Those who keep God's commandments and and the righteousness of faith / the
testimony of Jesus will be called great in the kingdom:

  Matthew 5:19 - Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these
  commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the
  kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called
  great in the kingdom of heaven. (ESV)

It is humility to keep God's commandments by faith (and not works),
accountable to God who sees in secret.

Quote by John Piper
"Pride is insubordinate. [It says,] You don't have a right to tell me what to
do. That's what happened in the Garden of Eden right at the beginning of our
sinful plight. And that's what all of us do apart from God's grace."

It's God who tests the faith, and God who justifies:

  II Corinthians 10:18 - For it is not the one who commends himself who is
  approved, but the one whom the Lord commends. (ESV)

We 'endeavour' to be justified in Christ. We want to be found in Christ. We
don't justify ourselves, and we don't put ourselves in, but we endeavour to
be justified by God by being in Christ:

  Galatians 2:17 - But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too
  were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not!
  (ESV)

Surely to be found in Christ we would be trusting Him and and trusting in Him
and living for Him, and even serving Him.

We must believe, believe in and obey Christ.

The will of the Father is to believe on the Son, and it's also for us to
love.

  John 6:40 - For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on
  the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him
  up on the last day. (ESV)

God gifts us repentance as we believe in Jesus:

  Acts 16:31-32 - And they said, Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be
  saved, you and your household. And they spoke the word of the Lord to him
  and to all who were in his house. (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

We need God to know us:

  Galatians 4:4-9 - But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth
  his Son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under
  the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are
  sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba!
  Father! So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir
  through God. Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to
  those that by nature are not gods. But now that you have come to know God,
  or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and
  worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be
  once more? (ESV)

Yes we must trust Him:

  Romans 4:5-8 - And to the one who does not work but trusts him who
  justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, just as David
  also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness
  apart from works: Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not
  count his sin. (ESV)

We must do the will of the Father:

  Matthew 7:15-20 - Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's
  clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their
  fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? So,
  every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit.
  A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good
  fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into
  the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits. (ESV)

We must not be workers of lawlessness, but our belief should produce more
obedience:

  Matthew 7:21-23 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in
  your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in
  your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew you; depart from
  me, you workers of lawlessness (458. anomia). (ESV)

  Matthew 6:10 - Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. (ESV)

|  anomia: lawlessness
|  Original Word: ἀνομία, ας, ἡ
|  Part of Speech: Noun, Feminine
|  Transliteration: anomia
|  Phonetic Spelling: (an-om-ee'-ah)
|  Definition: lawlessness
|  Usage: lawlessness, iniquity, disobedience, sin.

|  2532 5119 3670           846       3754   3763      1097
|  kai  tote homologēsō     autois    hoti   Oudepote  egnōn
|  καὶ  τότε ὁμολογήσω      αὐτοῖς    ὅτι  , Οὐδέποτε  ἔγνων
|  And  then I will declare to them    -     Never     knew I
|  Conj Adv  V-FIA-1S       PPro-DM3P Conj   Adv       V-AIA-1S
| 
|  4771     672         575  1473     3588    2038 [e]
|  hymas    apochōreite ap’  emou     hoi     ergazomenoi
|  ὑμᾶς  ;  ἀποχωρεῖτε  ἀπ’  ἐμοῦ  ,  οἱ      ἐργαζόμενοι
|   you      depart you  from Me       those   working
|   PPro-A2P V-PMA-2P    Prep PPro-G1S Art-VMP V-PPM/P-VMP
|  
|   3588    458
|   tēn     anomian
|   τὴν     ἀνομίαν  .
|    -      lawlessness
|   Art-AFS N-AFS

We must put Jesus' words into action:

  Matthew 7:24-28 - Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them
  will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell,
  and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did
  not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears
  these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who
  built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and
  the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the
  fall of it. And when Jesus finished these sayings, the crowds were
  astonished at his teaching, (ESV)

The words which Jesus had just spoken which he was probably referring to. We
should be doers of the Law, specifically to love - to fulfill the Royal Law -
and the "strait and narrow" involves repentance and sanctification:

  Matthew 7:1-20 - Judge not, that you be not judged. For with the judgment
  you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be
  measured to you. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye,
  but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to
  your brother, Let me take the speck out of your eye, when there is the log
  in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and
  then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. Do
  not give dogs what is holy, and do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest
  they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you. Ask, and it will be
  given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
  For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one
  who knocks it will be opened. Or which one of you, if his son asks him for
  bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a
  serpent? If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your
  children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things
  to those who ask him! So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do
  also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets. Enter by the narrow
  gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction,
  and those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie.
  narrow, small) and the way is hard (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when
  circumstances "rub us the wrong way" that make us feel confined (hemmed
  in); restricted to a "narrow" place) that leads to life, and those who find
  it are few. Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing
  but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits.
  Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? So, every
  healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A
  healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good
  fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into
  the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits. (ESV)

  Romans 13:10 - Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the
  fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

We should continue serving God:

  John 4:34 - Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent
  me and to accomplish his work. (ESV)

  John 8:29 - And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I
  always do the things that are pleasing to him. (ESV)

There are varieties of service, and God empowers us to serve Him:

  I Corinthians 12:4-6 - Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same
  Spirit; and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord; and there
  are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all
  in everyone. (ESV)

We must keep and accept the precepts of God over the precepts of men:

  Mark 7:6-9 - And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you
  hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but
  their heart is far from me; in vain do they worship me, teaching as
  doctrines the commandments of men. You leave the commandment of God and
  hold to the tradition of men. And he said to them, You have a fine way of
  rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition!
  (ESV)

This passage is condemning submitting to worldly / human precepts and
imploring us to submit to God's precepts. It's not condemning God's precepts
but imploring us to put to death what is against God's precepts:

  Colossians 2:20-23,3:1-6 - If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits
  of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit
  to regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch (referring to
  things that all perish as they are used)—according to human precepts and
  teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made
  religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value
  in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. If then you have been raised with
  Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the
  right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things
  that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ
  in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear
  with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. (ESV)

6. Jehovah is Almighty God, Creator of Heaven and Earth

  Jeremiah 31:33 - But this is the covenant that I will make with the house
  of Israel after those days, declares the LORD (H3068 Yhovah): I will put my
  law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their
  God, and they shall be my people. (ESV)

  Genesis 2:7 - then the LORD (H3068 Yhovah) God (H430 'elohiym) formed the
  man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of
  life, and the man became a living creature. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: God's Own Name

  II Timothy 2:19 - But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal: The
  Lord knows those who are his, and, Let everyone who names the name of the
  Lord depart from iniquity. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: The Superior Name of the Son

The life which God has given us is in Jesus. And by believing He is who He
is, we may have life in His name:

  John 20:31 - but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is
  the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his
  name. (ESV)

Jehovah God gave Jesus His name, Jesus Christ, Son of God:

  Matthew 1:21 - She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for
  he will save his people from their sins. (ESV)

  Matthew 3:17 - and behold, a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved
  Son, with whom I am well pleased. (ESV)

Jesus says that Jehovah God gave Him His name, Jesus, and that Jesus is
Jehovah God's name:

  John 17:11 - And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world,
  and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have
  given me, that they may be one, even as we are one. (ESV)

God's name is also Yahweh (Jehovah):

  Exodus 3:13-15 - Then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel
  and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask
  me, What is his name? what shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I AM WHO
  I AM. And he said, Say this to the people of Israel, I AM has sent me to
  you. God also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel, The LORD
  (3068. Yhvh), the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of
  Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever,
  and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. (ESV)

  Exodus 34:5-7 - The LORD (3068. Yhvh) descended in the cloud and stood with
  him there, and proclaimed the name of the LORD (3068. Yhvh). The LORD
  (3068. Yhvh) passed before him and proclaimed, The LORD (3068. Yhvh), the
  LORD (3068. Yhvh), a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and
  abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for
  thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no
  means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the
  children and the children's children, to the third and the fourth
  generation. (ESV)

Jesus manifested / made known this name. Jesus, the Only Begotten Son from
God, with God's character and likeness, manifested / made known God's name
onoma:

  John 17:6 - I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out
  of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept
  your word. (ESV)

  John 17:6 - I have revealed (G5319 phaneroó) Your name (G3686 onoma) to
  those You have given Me out of the world. They were Yours; You gave them to
  Me, and they have kept Your word. (engbsb2020eb)

  John 17:26 - I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it
  known, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in
  them. (ESV)

  Psalms 22:22 - I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the
  congregation I will praise you: (ESV)

  Hebrews 2:11-12 - For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all
  have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
  saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the
  congregation I will sing your praise. (ESV)

  John 1:18 - No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's
  side, he has made him known. (ESV)

Jesus' name is the name above all names:

  Philippians 2:9-11 - Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on
  him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every
  knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every
  tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
  (ESV)

Father God is greater than all:

  John 10:29 - My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and
  no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. (ESV)

  John 20:17 - Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet
  ascended to the Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, I am
  ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. (ESV)

Thoughts:

• Jesus' name is the name above all names
• Father God is greater than the Son of God
• The name of Jesus belongs to both the Father and the Son
• God is to be remembered as YHWH

  I Corinthians 6:17 - But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit
  with him. (ESV)

Father God has a voice and a form, and sent Jesus:

  John 5:37-38 - And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about
  me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you
  do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he
  has sent. (ESV)

Father God spoke here:

  John 12:27-30 - Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save
  me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father,
  glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven: I have glorified it, and
  I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that
  it had thundered. Others said, An angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered,
  This voice has come for your sake, not mine. (ESV)

Father God glorifies Himself as He glorifies Jesus:

  John 13:31 - When he had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man
  glorified, and God is glorified in him. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:11 - and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to
  the glory of God the Father. (ESV)

I believe that Jesus Christ is Jehovah and is Immanuel, and I believe in one
God revealed in 3 Persons.

I believe that Jesus Christ is Jehovah, in that Jesus is God the Son, and the
name Jesus belongs to Jehovah God:

  John 1:1-3 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made
  through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: What A Beautiful Name - Hillsong Worship

Hillsong - What A Beautiful Name (Lyrics)

You didn't want Heaven without us; So Jesus, You brought Heaven down; My sin
was great, Your love was greater; What could separate us now?

Death could not hold You, the veil tore before You; You silenced the boast of
sin and grave; The Heavens are roaring, the praise of Your glory; For You are
raised to life again

You have no rival, You have no equal; Now and forever, God, You reign; Yours
is the Kingdom, Yours is the Glory; Yours is the Name above all names

What a powerful Name it is, what a powerful Name it is; The Name of Jesus
Christ, my King; What a powerful Name it is, nothing can stand against; What
a powerful Name it is, the Name of Jesus

  John 1:14 - And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen
  his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and
  truth. (ESV)

  John 1:17 - For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came
  through Jesus Christ. (ESV)

  Romans 9:4-5 - They are Israelites, and to them belong the adoption, the
  glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship, and the promises.
  To them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh,
  is the Christ who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen. (ESV)

  Ezekiel 34:11-12 - For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, I myself will
  search for my sheep and will seek them out. As a shepherd seeks out his
  flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so will I seek
  out my sheep, and I will rescue them from all places where they have been
  scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness. (ESV)

biblehub.com 34-11.htm: Ezekiel 34:11 Interlinear: For thus said the Lord
Jehovah: Lo, I – even I, have required My flock, And I have sought it out.

  John 10:16 - And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring
  them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock,
  one shepherd. (ESV)

  John 11:51-52 - He did not say this of his own accord, but being high
  priest that year he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, and not
  for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who
  are scattered abroad. (ESV)

  Acts 28:28 - Therefore let it be known to you that this salvation of God
  has been sent to the Gentiles; they will listen. (ESV)

Video
youtube.com: Gospel of Mark calls Jesus God in every chapter

God the Father and God the Son are one:

  John 10:30 - I and the Father are one.

  Matthew 11:25-27 - At that time Jesus declared, I thank you, Father, Lord
  of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and
  understanding and revealed them to little children; yes, Father, for such
  was your gracious will. All things have been handed over to me by my
  Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the
  Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.
  (ESV)

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Yeshua, Jesus                        Yahweh, Jehovah
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Isaiah 40:3 - A voice cries: In
Mark 1:3 - the voice of one crying in    the wilderness prepare the way of
the wilderness: Prepare the way of the   the LORD; make straight in the
Lord, make his paths straight, (ESV)     desert a highway for our God.
(ESV)
Mark 2:7 - Why does this man speak like  Isaiah 43:25 - I, I am he who
that? He is blaspheming! Who can         blots out your transgressions for
forgive sins but God alone? (ESV)        my own sake, and I will not
remember your sins. (ESV)
Psalms 107:28-29 - Then they cried
Mark 4:38 - But he was in the stern,     to the LORD in their trouble, and
asleep on the cushion. And they woke     he delivered them from their
him and said to him, Teacher, do you     distress. He made the storm be
not care that we are perishing? (ESV)    still, and the waves of the sea
were hushed. (ESV)
Mark 5:35-43 - While he was still
speaking, there came from the ruler's
house some who said, Your daughter is    I Kings 17:21-22 - Then he
dead. Why trouble the Teacher any        stretched himself upon the child
further? But overhearing what they       three times and cried to the Lord,
said, Jesus said to the ruler of the     O Lord my God, let this child's
synagogue, Do not fear, only believe.    life come into him again. And the
And he allowed no one to follow him      Lord listened to the voice of
except Peter and James and John the      Elijah. And the life of the child
brother of James. They came to the       came into him again, and he
house of the ruler of the synagogue,     revived. 2 Kings 4:32-35 - When
and Jesus saw a commotion, people        Elisha came into the house, he saw
weeping and wailing loudly. And when he  the child lying dead on his bed.
had entered, he said to them, Why are    So he went in and shut the door
you making a commotion and weeping? The  behind the two of them and prayed
child is not dead but sleeping. And      to the LORD. Then he went up and
they laughed at him. But he put them     lay on the child, putting his
all outside and took the child's father  mouth on his mouth, his eyes on
and mother and those who were with him   his eyes, and his hands on his
and went in where the child was. Taking  hands. And as he stretched himself
her by the hand he said to her, Talitha  upon him, the flesh of the child
cumi, which means, Little girl, I say    became warm. Then he got up again
to you, arise. And immediately the girl  and walked once back and forth in
got up and began walking (for she was    the house, and went up and
twelve years of age), and they were      stretched himself upon him. The
immediately overcome with amazement.     child sneezed seven times, and the
And he strictly charged them that no     child opened his eyes. (ESV)
one should know this, and told them to
give her something to eat. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Yeshua, Jesus                        Yahweh, Jehovah
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Mark 6:48 - And he saw that they were making         Job 9:8 - who alone
headway painfully, for the wind was against them.    stretched out the
And about the fourth watch of the night he came to   heavens and trampled
them, walking on the sea. He meant to pass by them,  the waves of the sea;
(ESV)                                                (ESV)
Mark 7:31-47 - Then he returned from the region of
Tyre and went through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee,
in the region of the Decapolis. And they brought to
him a man who was deaf and had a speech impediment,
and they begged him to lay his hand on him. And
taking him aside from the crowd privately, he put
his fingers into his ears, and after spitting
touched his tongue. And looking up to heaven, he
sighed and said to him, Ephphatha, that is, Be
opened. And his ears were opened, his tongue was
released, and he spoke plainly. And Jesus charged
them to tell no one. But the more he charged them,
the more zealously they proclaimed it. And they
were astonished beyond measure, saying, He has done
all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and
the mute speak. In those days, when again a great    Exodus 4:11 - Then the
crowd had gathered, and they had nothing to eat, he  LORD said to him, Who
called his disciples to him and said to them, I      has made man's mouth?
have compassion on the crowd, because they have      Who makes him mute, or
been with me now three days and have nothing to      deaf, or seeing, or
eat. And if I send them away hungry to their homes,  blind? Is it not I,
they will faint on the way. And some of them have    the LORD? (ESV)
come from far away. And his disciples answered him,
How can one feed these people with bread here in
this desolate place? And he asked them, How many
loaves do you have? They said, Seven. And he
directed the crowd to sit down on the ground. And
he took the seven loaves, and having given thanks,
he broke them and gave them to his disciples to set
before the people; and they set them before the
crowd. And they had a few small fish. And having
blessed them, he said that these also should be set
before them. And they ate and were satisfied. And
they took up the broken pieces left over, seven
baskets full. And there were about four thousand
people. And he sent them away. And immediately he
got into the boat with his disciples and went to
the district of Dalmanutha. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Yeshua, Jesus                        Yahweh, Jehovah
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Mark 8:1-10 - In those days, when again a
great crowd had gathered, and they had
nothing to eat, he called his disciples to
him and said to them, I have compassion on
the crowd, because they have been with me now
three days and have nothing to eat. And if I
send them away hungry to their homes, they
will faint on the way. And some of them have
come from far away. And his disciples
answered him, How can one feed these people    Exodus 16:4 - Then the LORD
with bread here in this desolate place? And    said to Moses, Behold, I am
he asked them, How many loaves do you have?    about to rain bread from
They said, Seven. And he directed the crowd    heaven for you, and the
to sit down on the ground. And he took the     people shall go out and
seven loaves, and having given thanks, he      gather a day's portion every
broke them and gave them to his disciples to   day, that I may test them,
set before the people; and they set them       whether they will walk in my
before the crowd. And they had a few small     law or not. (ESV)
fish. And having blessed them, he said that
these also should be set before them. And
they ate and were satisfied. And they took up
the broken pieces left over, seven baskets
full. And there were about four thousand
people. And he sent them away. And
immediately he got into the boat with his
disciples and went to the district of
Dalmanutha. (ESV)
Mark 9:2-5 - And after six days Jesus took
with him Peter and James and John, and led
them up a high mountain by themselves. And he
was transfigured before them, and his clothes  Only 2 people to climb a
became radiant, intensely white, as no one on  mountain to commune with
earth could bleach them. And there appeared    God. Moses in Exodus 24, and
to them Elijah with Moses, and they were       Elijah in I Kings 19
talking with Jesus. And Peter said to Jesus,
Rabbi, it is good that we are here. Let us
make three tents, one for you and one for
Moses and one for Elijah. (ESV)
Daniel 7:13-14 - I saw in
the night visions, and
behold, with the clouds of
heaven there came one like a
Mark 14:61-62 - But he remained silent and     son of man, and he came to
made no answer. Again the high priest asked    the Ancient of Days and was
him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the        presented before him. And to
Blessed? And Jesus said, I am, and you will    him was given dominion and
see the Son of Man seated at the right hand    glory and a kingdom, that
of Power, and coming with the clouds of        all peoples, nations, and
heaven. (ESV)                                  languages should serve him;
his dominion is an
everlasting dominion, which
shall not pass away, and his
kingdom one that shall not
be destroyed. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  John 8:18-19 - I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father
  who sent me bears witness about me. They said to him therefore, Where is
  your Father? Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my Father. If you knew
  me, you would know my Father also. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:9-11 - We must not put Christ to the test, as some of them
  did and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble, as some of them did and
  were destroyed by the Destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an
  example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of
  the ages has come. (ESV)

  I John 5:20 - And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us
  understanding, so that we may know him who is true; and we are in him who
  is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.
  (ESV)

  I John 5:11 - And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and
  this life is in his Son. (ESV)

  Isaiah 43:10 - You are my witnesses, declares the LORD, and my servant whom
  I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am
  he. Before me no god was formed, nor shall there be any after me. (ESV)

To have the Spirit of Christ is to have the Spirit of Jehovah God:

  Romans 8:9-10 - You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in
  fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit
  of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the
  body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness.
  (ESV)

God sends the Spirit of His Son into our heart, crying, "Abba! Father!" We
experience this as our own cry.

This is how we are given the assurance that we are the children of God:

  Galatians 4:1-7 - I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no
  different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything, but he is
  under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. In the same
  way we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary
  principles of the world. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent
  forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were
  under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you
  are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba!
  Father! So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir
  through God. (ESV)

We, personally cry "Abba, Father!" We call to Father God.

  Romans 8:13-17 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but
  if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For
  all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not
  receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received
  the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba! Father! The Spirit
  himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God, and if
  children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we
  suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: The Spirit in Us Cries 'Abba Father': Galatians 4:1-7, Part 5

I really want to hear the voice of the Holy Spirit cry 'Abba Father', and
acknowledge to me in a voice that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh.

  I John 4:1-3 - Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits
  to see whether they are from God, for many false prophets have gone out
  into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that
  confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, and every
  spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of
  the antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already.
  (ESV)

As of now (28 April '24), though, I have not actually heard that confession
through the Spirit (as I expect to hear it) that Jesus Christ has come in the
flesh - just being honest.

I still profess that Jesus Christ is the Only-Begotten Son of God who has
proceeded from Father God, come from heaven to earth in the flesh, born of
the virgin Mary, was crucified and died for the sins of mankind and raised
from the dead on the third day and has ascended to the Father and sits at His
right hand, and I pray daily to Father God.

Also, I have had as of 28 May '24 in my dreams:

• A picture of "Jehovah 🌹" - Jehovah's name with a rose by it, and
• A distinctly male voice which said, "Jesus is God"

star.net.nz: The Word for Today - The right balance - May 28th

Interesting. It's not exactly what I'm still having faith for, but Jesus is
indeed God the Son, and Jehovah is God and is Love. I will be still waiting
for the Biblical acknowledgement I am waiting for "Jesus is the Son of God
who has proceeded forth from Father God in the flesh from heaven to earth".
Otherwise I'm simply not going to trust the spirit sending dreams/visions.

Song
youtube.com: Petra: Love

Petra - Love (Lyrics)

Love is patient, love is kind; No eyes of envy, true love is blind; Love is
humble, it knows no pride; No selfish motive hiden inside; Love is gentle,
makes no demands; Despite all wrong, true love still stands; Love is holy,
love is pure; It lasts forever, it will endure

Love is loyal, believes the best; It loves the truth, love stands the test;
Love is God sent in His Son; Love forgives all we have done

Love knows when to let go; Love knows when to say no; Love grows in the light
on the Son; And love show the world that the Son of Love has come

In this world where hatred seems to grow; True love goes against the flow;
And becomes so hard to show

They can get very tactical sometimes, so I have to be very discerning. Though
I will test them because I still get some true visions/dreams sometimes.

  I John 4:2-3 - By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that
  confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, and every
  spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of
  the antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already.
  (ESV)

Some stuff happened last week I might mention.

Tues <2024-10-08 Tue>:

• I woke up to a very puffy face - like I got beat up - by spiritual attack
which has happened a few times in the last year on specific dates like
Halloween.
• But I went to Don's Bible study anyway
• One of the guys walked out early
• I blame witchcraft / satanic stuff / still feeling like I'm under a
lot of spiritual attack

Also in this week, the guy from India told me by email he'd "beat me up" if I
didn't help him financially. - Definitely a spiritual attack thing.

Wednesday <2024-10-09 Wed>:

• JWs came to my door
• I mentioned how I implore them to accept that Holy Spirit is a
person, not merely a force

Thursday <2024-10-10 Thu>:

• In the morning, on the verge of waking up, I heard a voice that said,
"Shane" - same voice as when I heard them say "Jesus is God."
• then I thought/spoke in my mind, "Please speak to me God." and I got
a bright white flash immediately, then I woke up and got out of bed

What's interesting about this, is it's as if, connecting both of these events
hearing this same voice, I'm hearing, "God is telling me that Jesus is God."
This seems correct, and I affirm.

I've strangely still been getting a huge amount of spiritual attack as I
resist bad doctrine. The fight is ongoing.

Mari Mari Emmanuel loves Jesus and this is a great sermon. I wish I heard and
understood this earlier. Mari is speaking a lot of truth here. I can't
fact-check the entire thing but it could have brought me up to speed a bit
faster I think if I watched it earlier:

youtube.com: Part 1 Of Works Of The Holy Spirit | Bishop Mari Mari Emmanuel

He (Jesus Christ) is the only one who fulfilled all God's Commandments and
laws He is the perfect human, like the Lord said in Matthew 5:48 be as
perfect as your Heavenly Father is.

This man is the perfect one like his Heavenly Father.

Therefore this human being can be the Son for God. This human only can be the
Son - qualifies to be the Son because he has fulfilled all God's demands,
requests, criterias. That's why, lawfully, he qualifies to be the Son. Not in
any other way but by law, by law. So no one can challenge his authenticity in
any court of law because he has fulfilled all laws.

So whenever he stands in any court of law he can stand with his head up, high
up, and can say, "Anyone of you can convict me of sin?" No-one. He's the only
human being who never broke God's word, because everything in Him was the yes
and the AMEN!!

We are talking here about the Lord's humanity, not divinity. Divinity is God.
He's the perfect God. We're talking about the human being, perfect like God.

  Hebrews 7:26-28 - For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high
  priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted
  above the heavens. He has no need, like those high priests, to offer
  sacrifices daily, first for his own sins and then for those of the people,
  since he did this once for all when he offered up himself. For the law
  appoints men in their weakness as high priests, but the word of the oath,
  which came later than the law, appoints a Son who has been made perfect
  forever. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 5:20-22 - Do not despise prophecies, but test everything;
  hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. (ESV)

But I am still seeking hearing that acknowledgement by continuing in Jesus'
word, endeavoring to keep Jesus' commandments. I certainly have heard many
false and deceptive voices, even blasphemy. So I mean, if the devil or evil
spirits can speak lies to me then I just have total confidence that at the
right time I'll hear from God.

And even up till now I still am seeking irrefutable personal assurance of
God's justification beyond the unseen evidence I already hold out for by
faith in God, and the faith in the promises of God written in Scripture that
say I am justified for my faith in Jesus.

Not everything I have had in my dreams is against the truth. For example,
recently I heard this in a dream:

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

Therefore, I will continue to endeavour to keep Jesus' commandments:

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

So it's really important that I remain faithful to Jesus and do my best to
not compromise or be swayed by people who deter me from keeping Jesus'
commandments.

And eventually His commandments become unburdensome, and we're keeping them,
and we have confidence we have come to know Him:

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

Knowing God coincides with keeping His word. I think that if we're having
trouble understanding the Godhead, we should try to keep God's word:

  John 8:54-58 - Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It
  is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say, He is our God. But you have
  not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would
  be a liar like you, but I do know him and I keep his word. Your father
  Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. So the
  Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen
  Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham
  was, I am. (ESV)

This kind of sounds like people can use their intellect to avoid obeying
Jesus, and we must come against that disobedience:

  II Corinthians 10:5 - We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised
  against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey
  Christ, (ESV)

As we abide in the Word of God and are sanctified in the Truth, our spiritual
eyesight becomes clearer:

  Luke 6:41-42 - Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but
  do not notice the log that is in your own eye? How can you say to your
  brother, Brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye, when you
  yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite, first
  take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take out
  the speck that is in your brother's eye.

Also, the Holy Spirit may teach us even before He is in us, by helping us as
He dwells with us, and eventually will be in us:

  John 14:16-21 - And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another
  Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world
  cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him,
  for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans;
  I will come to you. Yet a little while and the world will see me no more,
  but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. In that day you
  will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has
  my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me
  will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.
  (ESV)

Also, it's important to purify ourselves, as we hope in Him:

  I John 3:1-3 - See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we
  should be called children of God; and so we are. The reason why the world
  does not know us is that it did not know him. Beloved, we are God's
  children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared; but we know that
  when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is.
  And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. (ESV)

  Colossians 1:18 - And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the
  beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be
  preeminent. (ESV)

This entire chapter is very important for testing the spirits:

  I John 4:1-17 - Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits
  to see whether they are from God, for many false prophets have gone out
  into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that
  confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, and every
  spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of
  the antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already.
  Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for he who is in
  you is greater than he who is in the world. They are from the world;
  therefore they speak from the world, and the world listens to them. We are
  from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is not from God does not
  listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error.
  Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves
  has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know
  God, because God is love. In this the love of God was made manifest among
  us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live
  through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved
  us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so
  loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God; if
  we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. By
  this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of
  his Spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son
  to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of
  God, God abides in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to
  believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in
  love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this is love perfected with
  us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he
  is so also are we in this world. (ESV)

• every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is
from God

We must hold fast to Jesus, the Head:

  Colossians 2:18-19 - Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and
  worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without
  reason by his sensuous mind, and not holding fast to the Head, from whom
  the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and
  ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God. (ESV)

Believing Father God Jehovah, loving Him, obeying His commandments, loving
and obeying Jesus Christ His son, all must be true together, even to have a
sound definition of what love is:

  I John 5:1-3 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and
  obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his
  commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me.

6.1. Seven I AM statements in the Gospel of John

6.1.1. The Bread of Life

  John 6:35 - Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me
  shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. (ESV)

  John 6:41 - So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, I am the bread
  that came down from heaven. (ESV)

  John 6:48 - I am the bread of life. (ESV)

  John 6:51 - I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone
  eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give
  for the life of the world is my flesh. (ESV)

6.1.2. The Light of the World

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life. (ESV)

  John 9:5 - As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Delirious? - Everything {Live}

Delirious? - Everything (Lyrics)
It's a beautiful day and the world is bright; 'cause you took me away from
the longest night; What can I do but give all I have to you

6.1.3. The Door

  John 10:7 - So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am
  the door of the sheep. (ESV)

  John 10:9 - I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and
  will go in and out and find pasture. (ESV)

6.1.4. The Good Shepherd

  John 10:11 - I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life
  for the sheep. (ESV)

  John 10:14-15 - I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me,
  just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life
  for the sheep. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: CityAlight - Yet Not I But Through Christ In Me {Live}

CityAlight - Yet Not I but Through Christ in Me (Lyrics)
To this I hold, my Shepherd will defend me; Through the deepest valley, He
will lead; Oh, the night has been won, and I shall overcome; Yet not I, but
through Christ in me

6.1.5. The Resurrection and the Life

  John 11:25 - Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever
  believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, (ESV)

6.1.6. The Way, the Truth and the Life

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
  No one comes to the Father except through me. (ESV)

6.1.7. The True Vine

  John 15:1 - I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. (ESV)

  John 15:5 - I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I
  in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do
  nothing. (ESV)

6.2. Jesus

6.2.1. Jesus has overcome the world

  John 16:33 - I have said these things to you, that in me you may have
  peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have
  overcome the world. (ESV)

  John 15:7 - If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you
  wish, and it will be done for you. (ESV)

AMEN!!

  I John 5:12-15 - Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the
  Son of God does not have life. I write these things to you who believe in
  the name of the Son of God that you may know that you have eternal life.
  And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything
  according to his will he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in
  whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of
  him. (ESV)

That's really good news for us:

• He carries our burdens
• He carries our shame

AMEN!!

Song
youtube.com: Darlene Zschech - In Jesus' Name | Official Live Video

6.2.2. Jesus is the Lamb of God who sits with God on God's throne

Jesus Christ is our God. Forever, He is Father God's revelation to us of
Himself.

  Revelation of John 7:9 - After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude
  that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples
  and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in
  white robes, with palm branches in their hands, (ESV)

  Revelation of John 7:10-12 - and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation
  belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb! And all the
  angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four
  living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and
  worshiped God, saying, Amen! Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving
  and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever! Amen. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 7:17 - For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be
  their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God
  will wipe away every tear from their eyes. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 19:4 - And the twenty-four elders and the four living
  creatures fell down and worshiped God who was seated on the throne, saying,
  Amen. Hallelujah! (ESV)

  Revelation of John 22:3 - No longer will there be anything accursed, but
  the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will
  worship him. (ESV)

6.2.3. Follow Jesus for eternal life. Jesus is the Bread of Life

  Luke 18:18-22 - And a ruler asked him, Good Teacher, what must I do to
  inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No
  one is good except God alone. You know the commandments: Do not commit
  adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor
  your father and mother. And he said, All these I have kept from my youth.
  When Jesus heard this, he said to him, One thing you still lack. Sell all
  that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in
  heaven; and come, follow me.

6.2.4. Believe Jesus and allow His word to abide in you

  John 5:46-47 - If you believed Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote of
  me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?
  (ESV)

  Proverbs 7:1-3 - My son, keep my words and treasure up my commandments with
  you; keep my commandments and live; keep my teaching as the apple of your
  eye; bind them on your fingers; write them on the tablet of your heart.

Jesus' word:

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life.

These Jews had believed but didn't abide in Jesus' words, and so prove to be
Jesus' disciples:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, If you
  abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth,
  and the truth will set you free.

They didn't believe they needed Jesus to set them free from sin:

  John 8:33-36 - They answered him, We are offspring of Abraham and have
  never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say, You will become
  free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits
  sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever; the
  son remains forever. So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.

We need to believe Jesus is who He says He is:

  John 8:24 - I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you
  believe that I am he you will die in your sins. (ESV)

We need to keep Jesus' word until we are set free:

  John 8:51 - Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will
  never see death. (ESV)

They couldn't accept that they needed to be saved:

  John 8:37 - I know that you are offspring of Abraham; yet you seek to kill
  me because my word finds no place in you.

Jesus speaks of what He has seen with His Father:

  John 8:38 - I speak of what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you
  have heard from your father.

6.2.5. We are implored to love Jesus and follow Him

We need to love Jesus because He came from God, to show us the Way as the
Light of the world.

Jesus is the Way, the Truth and the Life:

  John 8:39-42 - They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to
  them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what Abraham did,
  but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard
  from God. This is not what Abraham did. You are doing what your father did.
  They said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one
  Father—even God. Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would
  love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord,
  but he sent me.

  John 8:43 - Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot
  bear to hear my word.

We must obey His commandments to walk in the same way He walked so we get to
know Him and are sanctified by faith in the truth, which leads to eternal
life:

  Hebrews 5:8-9 - Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he
  suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation
  to all who obey him, (ESV)

6.2.6. We must listen to Jesus

  Luke 9:35 - Then a voice came out of the cloud, saying, “This is My Son, My
  Chosen One; listen to Him!”

  John 8:44-47 - You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do
  your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has
  nothing to do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he
  lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father
  of lies. But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of
  you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me?
  Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear
  them is that you are not of God.

youtube.com: Look at Jesus!

  John 1:1 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. (ESV)

  John 1:14 - And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen
  his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and
  truth. (ESV)

  Hebrews 1:2 - but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom
  he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the
  world. (ESV)

  Hebrews 2:1 - Therefore we must pay much closer attention to what we have
  heard, lest we drift away from it. (ESV)

6.2.7. We are implored to honour Jesus

  John 8:48-49 - The Jews answered him, Are we not right in saying that you
  are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon,
  but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me.

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and
  believes (G4100 pisteuo) him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come
  (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed from death to life.

6.2.8. We are implored to keep Jesus' words

  John 8:50-51 - Yet I do not seek my own glory; there is One who seeks it,
  and he is the judge. Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word,
  he will never see death.

6.2.9. We must receive Jesus. Jesus is God's Only-Begotten Son

  John 8:52-59 - The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have a demon!
  Abraham died, as did the prophets, yet you say, If anyone keeps my word, he
  will never taste death. Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died?
  And the prophets died! Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered,
  If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me,
  of whom you say, He is our God. But you have not known him. I know him. If
  I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you, but I do
  know him and I keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would
  see my day. He saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not
  yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly,
  truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to
  throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple.

6.2.10. Even those who have faith in Jesus Christ's name may have the right to
be born of God and become children of God

The worldly people rejected Him. Neither did His own people receive Him.

  John 1:1-13 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into
  being through Him, and apart from Him nothing came into being that has come
  into being. In Him was life, and the life was the Light of men. The Light
  shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. There came
  a man sent from God, whose name was John. He came as a witness, to testify
  about the Light, so that all might believe through him. He was not the
  Light, but he came to testify about the Light. There was the true Light
  which, coming into the world, enlightens (G5461 photizo) every man. He was
  in the world, and the world was made through Him, and the world did not
  know Him. He came to His own, and those who were His own did not receive
  Him. But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to become
  children of God, even to those who believe in His name, who were born, not
  of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God.

|  :  5461  photizo  fo-tid'-zo
| 
|   from 5457; to shed rays, i.e. to shine or (transitively) to brighten
|   up (literally or figuratively):--enlighten, illuminate, (bring to,
|   give) light, make to see.
|   see GREEK for 5457

  John 5:17 - But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I
  am working. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:1-7 - I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were
  all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized
  into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual
  food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the
  spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. Nevertheless,
  with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the
  wilderness. Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might
  not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were; as
  it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.

  Revelation of John 3:8 - I know your works. Behold, I have set before you
  an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little
  power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.

AMEN!!

6.2.11. We must do the will of God, which is the food and drink which Jesus
gives us

  John 6:27 - Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that
  endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him
  God the Father has set his seal. (ESV)

  John 7:34-39 - You will seek me and you will not find me. Where I am you
  cannot come. (ESV) The Jews said to one another, Where does this man intend
  to go that we will not find him? Does he intend to go to the Dispersion
  among the Greeks and teach the Greeks? What does he mean by saying, You
  will seek me and you will not find me, and, Where I am you cannot come? On
  the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, If
  anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as
  the Scripture has said, Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water.
  Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to
  receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not
  yet glorified.

Certainly, people are judged on their faith in Jesus:

  John 5:28-29 - Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who
  are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, those who have done good
  to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the
  resurrection of judgment.

Whoever honours Jesus by obeying Him, honours Father God. Whoever hears these
words from Jesus and trusts Father God has eternal life and doesn't come into
judgement; When we start trusting (believing and obeying) Jesus, we have
passed from death into life.

And in obeying Jesus we are performing good works which are works done in
faith towards God.

  John 5:17-29 - But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and
  I am working. This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him,
  because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God
  his own Father, making himself equal with God. So Jesus said to them,
  Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but
  only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the
  Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he
  himself is doing. And greater works than these will he show him, so that
  you may marvel. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and
  believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come (2064.
  erchomai) into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Truly, truly, I
  say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the
  voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For as the Father
  has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in
  himself. And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is
  the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who
  are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, those who have done good
  to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the
  resurrection of judgment. (ESV)

youtube.com: John MacArthur "Jesus is God"
He is to be obeyed in a way that is due only to God.

6.2.12. Having faith (living in accordance with the truth, and in relationship
with God) is asked of us - faith continues

What I mean by relationship is:

• being obedient to God,
• abiding in Jesus
• being accountable to God,
• waiting on God,
• trusting on God,
• being led by the Spirit of God,
• etc.

Led by the Spirit of God is doing God's will:

  Psalms 143:10 - Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your good
  Spirit lead me on level ground! (ESV)

  II Corinthians 3:18 - And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory
  of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of
  glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 3:6 - who has made us competent to be ministers of a new
  covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but
  the Spirit gives life. (ESV)

From our perspective we are obedient as we are participating in the Spirit,
but God works through us:

  Philippians 2:1-13 - So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any
  comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and
  sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love,
  being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit,
  but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of
  you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of
  others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus,
  who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a
  thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a
  servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form,
  he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death
  on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the
  name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee
  should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue
  confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
  Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my
  presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear
  and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for
  his good pleasure. (ESV)

We must obey! This obedience is being led by the Spirit.

Sermon
youtube.com: Love Is the Fruit of the Spirit

Our freedom is for serving one another, and if we are not abiding by Christ's
law, producing love which fulfills the law, then we can't say we are being
led by the Spirit:

  Galatians 5:13-16 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not
  use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve
  one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch
  out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the
  Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:22-23 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
  patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control;
  against such things there is no law. (ESV)

 1. We must abide by his teaching

We must abide by Jesus Christ's teaching. Whoever does not abide in Jesus
Christ's teaching does not have God:

  II John 1:9 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching
  has both the Father and the Son.

  Matthew 4:17 - From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent,
  for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. (ESV)

We must obey righteousness:

  Romans 2:6-8 - He will render to each one according to his works: to
  those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and
  immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are
  self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there
  will be wrath and fury. (ESV)

It is a gift to be able to be obedient to Lord Jesus Christ, trusting in
Him so that we may become obedient to Him:

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its
  end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of
  God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

 2. We must live sowing to the Spirit

  Galatians 6:7-8 - Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever
  one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh
  will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit
  will from the Spirit reap eternal life. (ESV)

 3. We must be servants of Christ

Also, from the heart:

  Ephesians 6:5-6 - Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and
  trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ, not by the way of
  eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the
  will of God from the heart, (ESV)

  Revelation of John 22:3 - No longer will there be anything accursed,
  but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants
  will worship him. (ESV)

  John 12:23-26 - And Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son
  of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of
  wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies,
  it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates
  his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves
  me, he must follow me; and where I am, there will my servant be also.
  If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.

 4. We must remain ultimately faithful to Jesus Christ, and never deny Him as
our only Master and Lord

  Jude 1:4 - For certain persons have crept in unnoticed, those who were
  long beforehand marked out for this condemnation, ungodly persons who
  turn the grace of our God into licentiousness and deny our only Master
  and Lord, Jesus Christ. (NASB)

  Colossians 2:18-19 - Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism
  and worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up
  without reason by his sensuous mind, and not holding fast to the Head,
  from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together through its
  joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God.

  Revelation of John 2:10 - Do not fear what you are about to suffer.
  Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you
  may be tested, and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful
  unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. (ESV)

 5. We must endeavour to live faithfully to our Jesus Christ

  Acts 11:21-24 - And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great
  number who believed turned to the Lord. The report of this came to the
  ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch.
  When he came and saw the grace of God, he was glad, and he exhorted
  them all to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose, for he
  was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great many
  people were added to the Lord. (ESV)

  II Timothy 2:13 - if we are faithless, he remains faithful - for he
  cannot deny himself. (ESV)

 6. Christian faith looks like this

We worship God by the Spirit, following Jesus, not the flesh:

  Philippians 3:2-3 - Look out for the dogs, look out for the evildoers,
  look out for those who mutilate the flesh. For we are the real
  circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ
  Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh— (ESV)

  Hebrews 12:28-29 - Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom
  that cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to God acceptable worship,
  with reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. (ESV)

Paul says that pursuing the righteousness that is by Mosaic law, is
placing confidence in the flesh:

  Philippians 3:4-7 - though I myself have reason for confidence in the
  flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the
  flesh, I have more: circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of
  Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as to the law, a
  Pharisee; as to zeal, a persecutor of the church; as to righteousness,
  under the law blameless. But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for
  the sake of Christ. (ESV)

But to put confidence in the Spirit is to not to abandon obedience, but
to seek instead to know Christ Jesus, our Lord, with obedient faith to
Jesus:

  Philippians 3:8-11 - Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the
  surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have
  suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order
  that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness
  of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith
  in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may
  know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his
  sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible
  I may attain the resurrection from the dead. (ESV)

The righteousness from God that depends on faith, faith in Christ:

• Know him and the power of His resurrection
• Share His sufferings
• Become like Him in His death

Jesus literally commanded us to behave in this way, so keep Jesus'
commandments:

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

One example of a command from Jesus:

  Matthew 5:42 - Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the
  one who would borrow from you. (ESV)

  Mark 12:30-31 - And you shall love the Lord your God with all your
  heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your
  strength. The second is this: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
  There is no other commandment greater than these. (ESV)

We are commanded to be innocent, and to bear witness of Jesus before men
who persecute us:

  Matthew 10:16-18 - Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst
  of wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves. Beware of men,
  for they will deliver you over to courts and flog you in their
  synagogues, and you will be dragged before governors and kings for my
  sake, to bear witness before them and the Gentiles. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:15-16 - that you may be blameless and innocent, children
  of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted
  generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast
  to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I
  did not run in vain or labor in vain. (ESV)

  Matthew 10:39 - Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses
  his life for my sake will find it. (ESV)

  Matthew 16:25 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but
  whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. (ESV)

Video
youtube.com: The Gospel Jesus Preached Is Different than What Most Have
Been Taught

Video
youtube.com: Did Jesus Preach the Gospel?

Video notes:

  Tim Keller says that the synoptic gospels (Matthew, Mark, Luke), and
  Paul all say these 3 things:

     • 1. Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, who came to earth in
       human form.
          • Luke 3:22 - and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily
            form, like a dove; and a voice came from heaven, You are my
            beloved Son; with you I am well pleased. (ESV)
     • 2. Jesus died to atone for our sins and it justifies by grace.
          • Mark 10:45 - For even the Son of Man came not to be served
            but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.
            (ESV)
          • Luke 24:44-47 - Then he said to them, These are my words that
            I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything
            written about me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the
            Psalms must be fulfilled. Then he opened their minds to
            understand the Scriptures, and said to them, Thus it is
            written, that the Christ should suffer and on the third day
            rise from the dead, and that repentance and forgiveness of
            sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations,
            beginning from Jerusalem. (ESV)
          • Luke 18:9-14 - He also told this parable to some who trusted
            in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others
            with contempt: Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a
            Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee,
            standing by himself, prayed thus: God, I thank you that I am
            not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even
            like this tax collector. I fast twice a week; I give tithes
            of all that I get. But the tax collector, standing far off,
            would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his
            breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner! I tell you,
            this man went down to his house justified, rather than the
            other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but
            the one who humbles himself will be exalted. (ESV)
     • 3. On the cross and resurrection He overcame the power of evil and
       death and at the end of time He will come back to complete that
       victory.

Jesus is definitely reigning as King. That is for sure.

Quote John Piper
The King, risen, reigning, replaces "Jesus, the King, saying the Kingdom
is coming", in which He meant, "I'm here. The Kingdom is in your midst."
And now He's come. He's done His ruling work. He's died to establish
that. He's risen. He's reigning.

The gospel of the Kingdom of God (God's reign on earth):

  Revelation of John 11:15 - Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and
  there were loud voices in heaven, saying, The kingdom of the world has
  become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign
  forever and ever. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 2:26 - The one who conquers and who keeps my works
  until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, (ESV)

  Acts 8:12 - But when they believed Philip as he preached good news
  about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were
  baptized, both men and women. (ESV)

  Acts 19:8 - And he entered the synagogue and for three months spoke
  boldly, reasoning and persuading them about the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  Zechariah 14:4,9 - On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of
  Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives
  shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley, so that
  one half of the Mount shall move northward, and the other half
  southward. And the LORD will be king over all the earth. On that day
  the LORD will be one and his name one. (ESV)

  Acts 28:31 - proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord
  Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance. (ESV)

It's the same gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-11 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel
  I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which
  you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first
  importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in
  accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised
  on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures, and that he
  appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. Then he appeared to more than
  five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though
  some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the
  apostles. Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me.
  For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle,
  because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am
  what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I
  worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of
  God that is with me. Whether then it was I or they, so we preach and so
  you believed. (ESV)

We must follow Jesus Christ who died for our sins, the light of the
world, the Good Shepherd, and come into the truth, and into the Kingdom
of God. Jesus is Lord of Lords, our Lord, our Saviour, our Master, our
King, our God, the Light, the Truth:

  John 12:44-47 - And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me,
  believes not in me but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him
  who sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever
  believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and
  does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the
  world but to save the world. (ESV)

  Mark 8:35 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever
  loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it. (ESV)

  John 3:14-16 - And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so
  must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have
  eternal life. For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son,
  that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
  (ESV)

  John 6:40 - For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks
  on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will
  raise him up on the last day. (ESV)

  Mark 10:19-30 - You know the commandments: Do not murder, Do not commit
  adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud,
  Honor your father and mother. And he said to him, Teacher, all these I
  have kept from my youth. And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said
  to him, You lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the
  poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.
  Disheartened by the saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great
  possessions. And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, How
  difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of
  God! And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said to them
  again, Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God! It is
  easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich
  person to enter the kingdom of God. And they were exceedingly
  astonished, and said to him, Then who can be saved? Jesus looked at
  them and said, With man it is impossible, but not with God. For all
  things are possible with God. Peter began to say to him, See, we have
  left everything and followed you. Jesus said, Truly, I say to you,
  there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or
  father or children or lands, for my sake and for the gospel, who will
  not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and
  sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions, and in
  the age to come eternal life. (ESV)

  Mark 13:9-10 - But be on your guard. For they will deliver you over to
  councils, and you will be beaten in synagogues, and you will stand
  before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them.
  And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations. (ESV)

  Luke 9:23-26 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let
  him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever
  would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my
  sake will save it. For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole
  world and loses or forfeits himself? For whoever is ashamed of me and
  of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his
  glory and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels. (ESV)

 7. We should clean ourselves with the aid of the Word and the Holy Spirit

While we may have been justified, we still want to stop willfully sinning
so that God can make better use of us:

  Proverbs 16:32 - Whoever is slow to anger is better than the mighty,
  and he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city. (ESV)

We should clean ourselves up:

  II Timothy 2:21 - Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is
  dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy,
  useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work.

Through faith, the Holy Spirit cleanses us:

  Acts 15:8-9 - And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, by
  giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us, and he made no
  distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.

By obedience to the word of God:

  Ephesians 5:25-27 - Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the
  church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having
  cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might
  present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or
  any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish.

By the Holy Spirit washing and renewing us:

  Titus 3:4-6- But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our
  Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in
  righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of
  regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us
  richly through Jesus Christ our Savior,

It's the will of God:

  I Thessalonians 4:3 - For this is the will of God, your sanctification:
  that you abstain from sexual immorality;

Our will must align to God's will:

  Psalms 143:10 - Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your
  good Spirit lead me on level ground! (ESV)

Jesus' words speak for themselves:

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether
  the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority.
  (ESV)

Paul echos this - a willing mind (readiness to obey). They gave
themselves first to the Lord and then by God's will to us:

  II Corinthians 8:3-12 - For they gave according to their means, as I
  can testify, and beyond their means, of their own free will, begging us
  earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints— and
  this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord
  and then by the will of God to us. Accordingly, we urged Titus that as
  he had started, so he should complete among you this act of grace. But
  as you excel in everything—in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in all
  earnestness, and in our love for you—see that you excel in this act of
  grace also. I say this not as a command, but to prove by the
  earnestness of others that your love also is genuine. For you know the
  grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your
  sake he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich. And
  in this matter I give my judgment: this benefits you, who a year ago
  started not only to do this work but also to desire to do it. So now
  finish doing it as well, so that your readiness in desiring it may be
  matched by your completing it out of what you have. For if the
  readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has,
  not according to what he does not have. (ESV)

And doing the will of God is what it means to be led by the Spirit of
God:

  Psalms 143:10 - Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your
  good Spirit lead me on level ground! (ESV)

 8. We must clean ourselves up with God's help

  Daniel 12:9-10 - He said, Go your way, Daniel, for the words are shut
  up and sealed until the time of the end. Many shall purify themselves
  and make themselves white and be refined, but the wicked shall act
  wickedly. And none of the wicked shall understand, but those who are
  wise shall understand.

  Revelation of John 21:27 - But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor
  anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are
  written in the Lamb's book of life.

  Revelation of John 22:14 - Blessed are those who wash their robes, so
  that they may have the right to the tree of life and that they may
  enter the city by the gates. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:13 - for it is God who works in you, both to will and to
  work for his good pleasure. (ESV)

6.2.13. We must be wanting to be cleaned of sin

We must look upon Jesus and stop sexual immorality and stop idolatry. The
stories mentioned here are examples for us to follow:

  I Corinthians 10:1-7 - I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were
  all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized
  into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual
  food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the
  spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. Nevertheless,
  with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the
  wilderness. Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might
  not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were; as
  it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.

We must take heed of this, because we don't want to fall:

  I Corinthians 10:8-13 - We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of
  them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We must not put
  Christ to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor
  grumble, as some of them did and were destroyed by the Destroyer. Now these
  things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our
  instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come. Therefore let anyone who
  thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken
  you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be
  tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide
  the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it.

  II Peter 2:2-11 - And many will follow their sensuality, and because of
  them the way of truth will be blasphemed. And in their greed they will
  exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle,
  and their destruction is not asleep. For if God did not spare angels when
  they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy
  darkness to be kept until the judgment; if he did not spare the ancient
  world, but preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others,
  when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly; if by turning the
  cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them to extinction,
  making them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly; and if he
  rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the
  wicked (for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was
  tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and
  heard); then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to
  keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment, and
  especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise
  authority. Bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the
  glorious ones, whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not
  pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord. (ESV)

  II Peter 2:19-20 - They promise them freedom, but they themselves are
  slaves of corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is
  enslaved. For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world
  through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again
  entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for them
  than the first.

Therefore, the way of truth involves believing the truth and to not blaspheme
it involves also practicing the truth and obeying Righteousness (trusting and
obeying Jesus) and turning away from sin is certainly a consequence of
turning to trust and obey Jesus.

I agree with Billy Graham
youtube.com: Billy Graham Classic Sermon

  II Peter 2:2 - And many will follow their sensuality, and because of them
  the way of truth will be blasphemed. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 21:8 - But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the
  detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters,
  and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and
  sulfur, which is the second death." (ESV)

 1. We should put the ignorant to silence through doing good

  I Peter 2:15 - For this is the will of God, that by doing good you
  should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people.

Jesus says you must obey God to be part of His family:

  Luke 8:21 - But He answered and said to them, “My mother and My
  brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.”

  Hebrews 2:11 - For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all
  have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
  (ESV)

Jesus implies you must obey Him (Jesus) to be part of His family:

  John 7:16 - So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his
  who sent me.

Devotional
Word for today - Do God's word - March 7th

6.2.14. The obedient children are the ones who are not conformed to the
passions of our former ignorance

  I Peter 1:14-16 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy.

I know I can testify to this fiery trial being a real thing:

  I Peter 1:17-19 - And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially
  according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the
  time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways
  inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver
  or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without
  blemish or spot. (ESV)

6.2.15. The sons of disobedience are the ones who are conformed to sexual
immorality, impurity, or covetousness, etc.

  Ephesians 5:5-7 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is
  sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has
  no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you
  with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon
  the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not associate with them;

6.2.16. If we trust in the name of the Son of God, Jesus Christ, we have
eternal life

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

It's imperative that as we go ahead, we must abide in the teaching of Christ,
or we won't have God (Jehovah God), and God is love and love comes from God,
so we need to abide in Christ's teachings, by belief and by obedience. For
example, in Mark 10:18, Jesus affirmed that God is Good. Therefore when we
read this, we must also be sanctified by this truth, affirming and coming
into agreement that God is Good. Also, Jesus commanded us to love one another
as He loved us John 13:34-35:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

You must obey Jesus, and that is choosing light and choosing agape love
towards God and people and not towards the world or worldly things:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

6.2.17. Get to know Jesus by believing Him and following His commandments

  John 10:14-15 - I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me,
  just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life
  for the sheep. (ESV)

Believing and obeying (loving) Jesus, we will be known by God:

  I Corinthians 8:3 - But if anyone loves God, he is known by God. (ESV)

We believe and obey Jesus:

  John 3:36 - He who believes in the Son has eternal life; but he who does
  not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him.”

By His grace we have to actually come into obeying Jesus to find life. Think
about what it means to obey Jesus: It's to walk in the Spirit, to abide in
Jesus' Spirit, to be obeying Jesus' commandments, to seek to follow the
pattern of life that He lived to be found in Him. You can abide in Jesus'
Spirit if you have faith in Him, believing in Him, believing, trusting and
obeying Him, knowing Him, and being found in Him! Faith in Christ I believe
means believing in Him and being obedient to Him, having communion with Him,
etc. becoming intimate with Him, following Him. This isn't our own merit, but
we still obey Jesus to be found in Him. In Him we have Jesus' righteousness:

  Matthew 16:25 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever
  loses his life for my sake will find it. (ESV)

God loved us first. We must accept that:

  I John 4:10-11 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he
  loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if
  God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. (ESV)

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

  John 3:35 - The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his
  hand. (ESV)

We must also obey the teaching of Jesus, believe on His name and follow His
commandments:

  Matthew 7:21-27 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in
  your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in
  your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew you; depart from
  me, you workers of lawlessness. Everyone then who hears these words of mine
  and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And
  the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that
  house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And
  everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a
  foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the
  floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell,
  and great was the fall of it. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:10 - Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. (ESV)

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

You can't have an abundant life without knowing Jesus, so we must have faith
in God and follow Jesus' commandments to get to know Him:

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

In order to know God we must love one another in the way that God has loved
us:

  I John 4:7-12 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love
  does not know God, because God is love. In this the love of God was made
  manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we
  might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God but
  that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
  Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has
  ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is
  perfected in us. (ESV)

You must obey Jesus:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in the Son has eternal life;
  whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God
  remains on him. (ESV)

We must have a response of love for Jesus:

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

We want to go ahead towards knowledge of Jesus, and not remain in darkness:

  John 12:46 - I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes
  in me may not remain in darkness. (ESV)

In believing and obeying Jesus, we have the Son:

  I John 5:12 - Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son
  of God does not have life. (ESV)

We must obey God. We have faith in God who was delivered up for our
trespasses and raised for our justification, and having faith in God is
having faith in His Son which is believing in and obeying Jesus Christ:

  Romans 4:23-25 - But the words it was counted to him were not written for
  his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe
  (G4100 pisteuo) in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was
  delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. (ESV)

We must obey Jesus' commandments to know Jesus, just as Jesus obeyed Father
God's commandments, and knows Father God:

  John 8:55-58 - But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say
  that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and I
  keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He
  saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years
  old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to
  you, before Abraham was, I am.

6.2.18. Atonement

Jesus' sacrifice is the only atonement for our sin we need. It's
comprehensive. It must be received through faith in Jesus Christ - and that
is not mere belief but obedience:

  Romans 3:25 - whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be
  received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. (ESV)

We have been crucified with Christ and we died to sin, as Jesus cancelled our
debt, so now we must cease to walk in sin, and not go back to the vomit:

  Colossians 2:13-14 - And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the
  uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having
  forgiven us all our trespasses, by canceling the record of debt that stood
  against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the
  cross.

We should do what is valuable in stopping the indulgence of the flesh, and
not what is invaluable from human precepts, but instead we should following
Christ and His teachings, and His example of what love looks like:

  Colossians 2:21-23 - Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch (referring
  to things that all perish as they are used)—according to human precepts and
  teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made
  religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value
  in stopping the indulgence of the flesh.

Instead, let's follow Jesus Christ's teachings:

  Colossians 3:1-4 - If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the
  things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.
  Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth.
  For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ
  who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.

Firstly, obedient children are children who hear the word of God, believe and
love God, and we should be holy in all our conduct if we call on the LORD God
who judges impartially according to each one's deeds:

  I Peter 1:14-19 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy. And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to
  each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your
  exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from
  your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but
  with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or
  spot. (ESV)

I'm quite convinced that the substitutionary atonement is there to help us
put a stop to sin, and live to righteousness and holiness:

  II Corinthians 5:21 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin,
  so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. (ESV)

If people including free-grace Christians do not repent from sin, they may
still receive the wrath of God, but I'm not the judge here:

  Colossians 3:5-10 - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. In these you too
  once walked, when you were living in them. But now you must put them all
  away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do
  not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its
  practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge
  after the image of its creator.

Whether we circumcise our hearts or God does it or it happens at the same
time, we are circumcised in the heart that we might die to sin and practice
righteousness. Repenting, we are not resisting the Holy Spirit:

  Acts 7:51 - You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you
  always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 10:12-17 - And now, Israel, what does the LORD your God require
  of you, but to fear the LORD your God, to walk in all his ways, to love
  him, to serve the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul,
  and to keep the commandments and statutes of the LORD, which I am
  commanding you today for your good? Behold, to the LORD your God belong
  heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth with all that is in it. Yet the
  LORD set his heart in love on your fathers and chose their offspring after
  them, you above all peoples, as you are this day. Circumcise therefore the
  foreskin of your heart, and be no longer stubborn. For the LORD your God is
  God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God,
  who is not partial and takes no bribe. (ESV)

  Romans 2:5-8 - But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are
  storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous
  judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his
  works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and
  immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking
  and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath
  and fury. (ESV)

We must stop doing evil:

  Romans 2:9-11 - There will be tribulation and distress for every human
  being who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor
  and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For
  God shows no partiality. (ESV)

  Romans 2:12-13 - For all who have sinned without the law will also perish
  without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by
  the law. For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God,
  but the doers of the law who will be justified. (ESV)

  Romans 2:14-16 - For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do
  what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do
  not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their
  hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting
  thoughts accuse or even excuse them on that day when, according to my
  gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. (ESV)

We must live out the truth:

  Romans 6:11 - So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to
  God in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

We stop obeying sin and start obeying righteousness, and God's Spirit helps
us to do that:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

  Romans 6:17-18 - But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. (ESV)

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its
  end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God
  is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

  Romans 7:25 - Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I
  myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law
  of sin. (ESV)

We are debtors. We are debtors to God for His mercy on us so we should by His
grace put to death the deeds of the body, the deeds of the flesh:

  Romans 8:12-15 - So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to
  live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh you
  will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you
  will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For
  you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you
  have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba! Father!
  (ESV)

  Romans 8:20-21 - For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly,
  but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will
  be set free from its bondage to decay and obtain the freedom of the glory
  of the children of God. (ESV)

There's nothing wrong with following the law by faith, knowing God sees our
hearts, seeking praise from God and not men, but when presented with Jesus
Christ, we should love Him and accept Him and place our faith in Him as He
commanded:

  Romans 9:32-33 - Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it
  were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone, as it is
  written, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling, and a rock of
  offense; and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. (ESV)

  Romans 10:8-10 - But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth
  and in your heart (that is, the word of faith that we proclaim); because,
  if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart
  that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart
  one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is
  saved. (ESV)

We should still be obedient to God. This verse clearly shows that God desires
us to be obedient to Him:

  Romans 10:21 - But of Israel he says, All day long I have held out my hands
  to a disobedient and contrary people. (ESV)

  Romans 13:3-5 - For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad.
  Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is
  good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your
  good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in
  vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath
  on the wrongdoer. Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid
  God's wrath but also for the sake of conscience. (ESV)

We should be compassionate on one another and accept one another, knowing
Jesus welcomed us even though we had lots of faults ourselves:

  Romans 15:7 - Therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you, for
  the glory of God. (ESV)

  Romans 16:17-19 - I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who
  cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have
  been taught; avoid them. For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but
  their own appetites, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the
  hearts of the naive. For your obedience is known to all, so that I rejoice
  over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and innocent as to
  what is evil. (ESV)

  Romans 15:18-19 - For I will not venture to speak of anything except what
  Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience—by
  word and deed, by the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the
  Spirit of God—so that from Jerusalem and all the way around to Illyricum I
  have fulfilled the ministry of the gospel of Christ; (ESV)

Absolutely:

  I Peter 4:17 - For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of
  God; and if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do
  not obey the gospel of God? (ESV)

youtube.com: Keep Rejoicing @time: 6 min 1 sec
For it is time for judgment to begin with the household of God. You see the
purposefulness in suffering? Now, this is God's judgment upon the church, in
this text. For it is time for judgment to begin with the household of God and
if it begins with us, Christians whom he loves with all of his heart and gave
his son to die for, what will be the outcome of those who do not obey the
gospel? So that Judgment of God is moving through the earth and it begins
with churches. And the Judgment of God comes upon churches. Why? Because he
hates us? Not at all. But because he loves us so much he will not spare us
anything to get out of us what he hates. Did you get that? It's not because
he hates us when a church or a Christian goes through times of darkness and
trial. It's because he loves us so much he will spare us nothing to to get
out of us what he hates, namely sin.

  Matthew 5:21-22 - You have heard that it was said to those of old, You
  shall not murder; and whoever murders will be liable to judgment. But I say
  to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to
  judgment; whoever insults his brother will be liable to the council; and
  whoever says, You fool! will be liable to the hell of fire. (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:5-7 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is
  sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has
  no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you
  with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon
  the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not associate with them;

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in the Son has eternal life;
  whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God
  remains on him. (ESV)

  Colossians 3:23-25 - Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and
  not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as
  your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. For the wrongdoer will be
  paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality.

We must serve our Lord:

  Colossians 3:23-24 - Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and
  not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as
  your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ.

We serve God in various ways:

  I Corinthians 12:4-11 - Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same
  Spirit; and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord; and there
  are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all
  in everyone. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the
  common good. To one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom,
  and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit, to
  another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one
  Spirit, to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another
  the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another various kinds of
  tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues. All these are empowered
  by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one individually as he
  wills. (ESV)

Walk how Jesus taught us to walk, with faith in Him, and in so doing receive
fellowship with one another and the cleansing of the blood of Jesus:

  I John 1:7 - But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
  fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
  from all sin.

Be led by God's Spirit by doing God's will:

  Psalms 143:10 - Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your good
  Spirit lead me on level ground! (ESV)

We receive reconciliation through Jesus Christ who is our Lord:

  Romans 5:11 - More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus
  Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. (ESV)

We are being made into people who walk in the light, not just intellectually
but actually obeying God's commandment to love Him and to love one another:

  Romans 5:19 - For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made
  sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.
  (ESV)

Our loving obedience abounds more as we grow in the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, filled with the fruit of righteousness which looks like stopping sin
and being obedient to Jesus, letting Jesus' righteousness shine through us:

  Philippians 1:9-11 - And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and
  more, with knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve what is
  excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, filled with
  the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory
  and praise of God.

Follow Jesus through the new and living Way:

  Hebrews 10:19-27 - Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter
  the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he
  opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh, and since we
  have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true
  heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an
  evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the
  confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful.
  And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not
  neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one
  another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near. For if we go on
  sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no
  longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a fearful expectation of judgment,
  and a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries.

We are ransommed by the blood of Jesus and the blood of Jesus continues to
cleanse us as we walk in the light, as we obey the truth:

  I Peter 1:16-22 - since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy.
  And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each
  one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your
  exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from
  your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but
  with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or
  spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but was made
  manifest in the last times for your sake, who through him are believers in
  God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith
  and hope are in God. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the
  truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure
  heart, (ESV)

  I John 1:6-7 - If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in
  darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the
  light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the
  blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 7:14 - I said to him, Sir, you know. And he said to me,
  These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed
  their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. (ESV)

6.2.19. Everyone needs saving

  Romans 11:32 - For God has consigned all to disobedience (543. apeitheia -
  willful unbelief, obstinancy, disobedience), that he may have mercy on all.
  (ESV)

  Romans 3:1-19 - Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the value of
  circumcision? Much in every way. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted
  with the oracles of God. What if some were unfaithful? Does their
  faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means! Let God be true
  though every one were a liar, as it is written, That you may be justified
  in your words, and prevail when you are judged. But if our unrighteousness
  serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is
  unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? (I speak in a human way.) By no means!
  For then how could God judge the world? But if through my lie God's truth
  abounds to his glory, why am I still being condemned as a sinner? And why
  not do evil that good may come?—as some people slanderously charge us with
  saying. Their condemnation is just. What then? Are we Jews any better off?
  No, not at all. For we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks,
  are under sin, as it is written: None is righteous, no, not one; no one
  understands; no one seeks for God. All have turned aside; together they
  have become worthless; no one does good, not even one. Their throat is an
  open grave; they use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under
  their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are
  swift to shed blood; in their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of
  peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now
  we know that whatever the law says it speaks to those who are under the
  law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held
  accountable to God. (ESV)

  Romans 3:20 - For by works of the law no human being will be justified in
  his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. (ESV)

We are saved from this crooked generation:

  Acts 2:40 - And with many other words he bore witness and continued to
  exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation. (ESV)

  Zephaniah 3:17 - The LORD your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will
  save; he will rejoice over you with gladness; he will quiet you by his
  love; he will exult over you with loud singing. (ESV)

God is our deliverer from this generation (Consider if you were stuck in
Sodom and wanted to escape - God can make that happen. God can pull a person
out of the sinful generation):

  Psalms 18:1-2 - I love you, O LORD, my strength. To the choirmaster. A
  Psalm of David, the servant of the LORD, who addressed the words of this
  song to the LORD on the day when the LORD rescued him from the hand of all
  his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. He said: The LORD is my rock and my
  fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my
  shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. (ESV)

Jesus picks us out and purifies us so we are set apart for His own possession
who are zealous for good works. Jesus rescues us from the crooked generation:

  Titus 2:14 - who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and
  to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for
  good works. (ESV)

Jesus sets us free by His Spirit in us:

  Galatians 5:1 - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore,
  and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. (ESV)

  I John 4:4 - Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for
  he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. (ESV)

Jesus freely gifts His Spirit to the one who cries out to Him to be saved and
wants to be saved:

  Psalms 34:17-18 - When the righteous cry for help, the LORD hears and
  delivers them out of all their troubles. The LORD is near to the
  brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. (ESV)

Our sins are blotted out so that we can return to God:

  Isaiah 44:22 - I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud and your
  sins like mist; return to me, for I have redeemed you. (ESV)

We are zealous to do good works, Jesus having redeemed us and given us His
Spirit, but we resist coming under condemnation from those who try to make us
feel as though we must do them in order to be saved, when we have already
been saved. Now repenting from sin is a little bit different. We are zealous
to do good works, and we also want to repent from sin, and stop committing
bad deeds:

  Romans 8:1-2 - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in
  Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ
  Jesus from the law of sin and death. (ESV)

  Psalms 34:19 - Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the LORD
  delivers him out of them all. (ESV)

People who are now in Christ are a new creation, and we should be
transitioning into the new. That might take some shaking off of old things,
and involves being sanctified by obedience to the Truth. But those who are in
Christ are a brand new creation, born-again:

|  5620 [e]  1487 [e] 5100 [e] 1722 [e] 5547 [e]  2537 [e]
|  hōste     ei       tis      en       Christō   kainē
|  ὥστε      εἴ       τις      ἐν       Χριστῷ  , καινὴ
|  Therefore if       anyone   [is] in  Christ    [he is] a new
|  Conj      Conj     IPro-NMS Prep     N-DMS     Adj-NFS
| 
|  2937 [e]  3588 [e] 744 [e]    3928 [e]         2400 [e]
|  ktisis    ta       archaia    parēlthen        idou
|  κτίσις  . τὰ       ἀρχαῖα     παρῆλθεν  ;      ἰδοὺ  ,
|   creation  The      old things have passed away behold
|   N-NFS     Art-NNP  Adj-NNP    V-AIA-3S         V-AMA-2S
|  
|   1096 [e]            2537 [e]
|   gegonen             kaina
|   γέγονεν             καινά  .
|   has come into being [the] new
|   V-RIA-3S            Adj-NNP

Our sins were paid for by Jesus' death. Jesus rose from the dead:

  I Corinthians 15:1-5 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you—unless you
  believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also
  received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures,
  that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with
  the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. (ESV)

Jesus went to the place of the dead so people who had died (those who Paul is
referring to here) may also be saved. Also, it seems that the rapture
doctrine was made known from a word from the Lord:

  I Thessalonians 4:14-17 - For since we believe that Jesus died and rose
  again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have
  fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we
  who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede
  those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven
  with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound
  of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who
  are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds
  to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. (ESV)

Jesus made me born again and I'm a new creation. Now we wait for ultimate
salvation:

  I Thessalonians 5:1-10 - Now concerning the times and the seasons,
  brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you. For you
  yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief
  in the night. While people are saying, There is peace and security, then
  sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant
  woman, and they will not escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for
  that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light,
  children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then
  let us not sleep, as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. For
  those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, are drunk at
  night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the
  breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. For
  God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord
  Jesus Christ, who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we
  might live with him. (ESV)

Video
youtube.com: Something HUGE Is Coming!

6.2.20. Righteous deeds

Sermon
youtube.com: John Pipe - Your Holy Deeds Are Not Filthy Rags

  Nehemiah 13:14 - Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and do not wipe
  out my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God and for his
  service. (ESV)

  Nehemiah 13:22 - Then I commanded the Levites that they should purify
  themselves and come and guard the gates, to keep the Sabbath day holy.
  Remember this also in my favor, O my God, and spare me according to the
  greatness of your steadfast love. (ESV)

  Nehemiah 13:30-31 - Thus I cleansed them from everything foreign, and I
  established the duties of the priests and Levites, each in his work; and I
  provided for the wood offering at appointed times, and for the firstfruits.
  Remember me, O my God, for good. (ESV)

God does not despise the righteous deeds of His children done by faith:

  Isaiah 64:5-6 - You meet him who joyfully works righteousness, those who
  remember you in your ways. Behold, you were angry, and we sinned; in our
  sins we have been a long time, and shall we be saved? We have all become
  like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted
  garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take
  us away. (ESV)

6.2.21. Whoever makes an appeal to God, calls upon His name will be saved

We call upon the Lord to be saved. And everyone needs saving.

  Acts 2:21 - And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name
  of the Lord shall be saved. (ESV)

  Acts 22:16 - And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away
  your sins, calling on his name. (ESV)

|  :  1941  epikaleomai  ep-ee-kal-eh'-om-ahee
| 
|   middle voice from 1909 and 2564; to entitle; by implication, to invoke
|   (for aid, worship, testimony, decision, etc.):--appeal (unto), call
|   (on, upon), surname.
|   see GREEK for 1909
|   see GREEK for 2564

Confessing that Jesus is Lord is becoming obedient to Him:

  Romans 10:8-9 - But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your mouth
  and in your heart”– that is, the word (G4487 rhema) of faith (G4102 pistis)
  which we are preaching, that if you confess (G3670 homologeo) with your
  mouth Jesus as Lord, and believe (G4100 pisteuo) in your heart (G2588
  kardia) that God raised Him from the dead, you will be saved; (NASB)

It's faith in the heart which we need; obedience to Jesus Christ and belief
in Jesus Christ in the heart, and belief and obedience to God who has raised
from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and
raised for our justification.

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. (ESV)

Jesus has been perfectly obedient, so Jesus speaks what Father God speaks,
and when someone seeks Jesus Christ, they see Father God, because Father God
has been revealed to us in Jesus Christ. The Father is in the Son. The Word
is God.

Also, through perfect obedience, Jesus has spoken Father God's commandment of
eternal life, which is what He has said:

• "the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say
and what to speak."

God sent Jesus:

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

  I Peter 3:17 - For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be
  God's will, than for doing evil. (ESV)

Obeying God's will often leads to suffering by the hands of those who are in
darkness:

  I Peter 4:19 - Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will
  entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. (ESV)

Whoever has faith in Jesus, has faith in God. Whoever sees Jesus sees the
Father:

  John 12:44-48 - And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me,
  believes not in me but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who
  sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in
  me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and does not keep
  them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world but to save
  the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
  judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.

Jesus' words bring eternal life. The commandment which Father God gave Jesus
is eternal life and the commandment is the words that Jesus Christ has
spoken, so we need to abide in Jesus Christ by letting His words abide in us,
believing Him and obeying Him; doing what He said:

  John 12:49-50- For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father
  who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say and what to
  speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say,
  therefore, I say as the Father has told me.

Jesus has the words of eternal life.

We need to obey Jesus Christ and walk and believe as God has commanded and
spoken through Jesus:

  John 14:6-11 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the
  life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me,
  you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have
  seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough
  for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you still do
  not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you
  say, Show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the
  Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own
  authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that
  I am in the Father and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of
  the works themselves.

We must believe Jesus, and have faith in Jesus Christ, obeying Jesus, and
that is obeying God and having faith in God:

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. (ESV)

Therefore, to arrive at the knowledge of the truth, you've got to have an
obedient heart.

We must hear about Jesus, believe and have faith in Him, and call on Him. In
Paul's writing here, the calling on Jesus comes after hearing about Jesus and
after believing in Him, and the hear of Jesus, necessitates a preacher:

  Romans 10:14-15- But how are they to call on him in whom they have not
  believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard?
  And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to
  preach unless they are sent? As it is written, How beautiful are the feet
  of those who preach the good news!

Confess:

|  :  3670  homologeo  hom-ol-og-eh'-o
| 
|   from a compound of the base of 3674 and 3056; to assent, i.e.
|   covenant, acknowledge:--con- (pro-)fess, confession is made, give
|   thanks, promise.
|   see GREEK for 3674
|   see GREEK for 3056

 1. Baptism is an appeal to God for a good conscience through the [death and]
resurrection of Jesus Christ's, taking part in it

I think baptism of water is an appeal to God and identifying oneself into
Christ's death and resurrection but the sacrament maybe is not strictly
required to be saved (as far as I understand).

To be baptised is an act of obedience.

I definitely believe that "believer's baptism" is the right way to
perform baptism.

Baptism does save, but I believe it must be coupled with belief, and also
trust, and I think that obedience comes from trust:

  Romans 6:3-4 - Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized
  into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried
  therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ
  was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk
  in newness of life. (ESV)

  I Peter 3:18-21 - For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous
  for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death
  in the flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and
  proclaimed to the spirits in prison, because they formerly did not
  obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was
  being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought
  safely through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves
  you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for
  a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,

Disbelief causes disobedience. Disbelief caused the Israelites to not
walk in obedience:

  Hebrews 3:16-19 - For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it
  not all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with whom was he
  provoked for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose
  bodies fell in the wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would
  not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient? So we see that
  they were unable to enter because of unbelief. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:13 - though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and
  insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly
  in unbelief, (ESV)

Doubt is very contrary to faith, even contrary to obedient faith. Ask in
obedient faith without any doubting:

  James 1:6-7 - But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one
  who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the
  wind. For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything
  from the Lord; (ESV)

Abraham had trust. Abraham had obedience. I believe that trust is very
important to have for faith to be counted as righteousness:

  Romans 4:20-22 - No distrust (apistia) made him waver concerning the
  promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to
  God, fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That
  is why his faith was counted to him as righteousness. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 6:14 - And God raised the Lord and will also raise us up
  by his power. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: CHRIST IS ENOUGH - HILLSONG LIVE LYRIC VIDEO | GLORIOUS
RUINS 2013

6.3. Obedience - A heart of obedience is the start of faith, and belief is the
start of continued obedience

Faith which produces love:

  Galatians 5:6 - For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision
  counts for anything, but only faith working through love. (ESV)

Faith that from a good conscience with God produces Christ's love:

  I Corinthians 16:13-14 - Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like
  men, be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart
  and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

God wants us to know Him and obey Him and to do good as He has commanded:

  Hosea 6:5-8 - Therefore I have hewn them by the prophets; I have slain them
  by the words of my mouth, and my judgment goes forth as the light. For I
  desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than
  burnt offerings. But like Adam they transgressed the covenant; there they
  dealt faithlessly with me. Gilead is a city of evildoers, tracked with
  blood. (ESV)

The only point I want to make from this text here is that faith is supposed
to continue in love and holiness. I believe this continuation of obedience
with faith, love and holiness (and self-control, which along with love is one
of the fruit of the Spirit) applies to all Christians. John Piper explains
this well:

  I Timothy 2:13-15 - For Adam was formed first, then Eve; and Adam was not
  deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor. Yet she
  will be saved through childbearing — if they continue in faith and love and
  holiness, with self-control. (ESV)

Quote from John Piper
and then all of this: faith, love, holiness, self-control is simply ordinary
pathway that all men and women must take in order to come to eternal life and
to salvation. We must believe, we must love, that love must yield holiness,
and part of the fruit of the Holy Spirit in that holiness is self-control.

6.3.1. Continued revelation comes from having a heart of obedience towards God

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. (ESV)

6.3.2. God's commanded is for everyone to come to the obedience of having faith
in Him through Jesus Christ

  Romans 16:26 - but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic
  writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of
  the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith — (ESV)

6.3.3. Fear of the Lord

  Isaiah 11:2 - And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the Spirit of
  wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, the Spirit of
  knowledge and the fear of the Lord.

Even after Jesus has come, the fear of the Lord is still important in getting
God's attention. We still must obey God by obeying Jesus:

  Psalms 34:11-22 - Come, O children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear
  of the Lord. What man is there who desires life and loves many days, that
  he may see good? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking
  deceit. Turn away from evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it. The eyes
  of the Lord are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry. The
  face of the Lord is against those who do evil, to cut off the memory of
  them from the earth. When the righteous cry for help, the Lord hears and
  delivers them out of all their troubles. The Lord is near to the
  brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. Many are the afflictions of
  the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. He keeps all his
  bones; not one of them is broken. Affliction will slay the wicked, and
  those who hate the righteous will be condemned. The Lord redeems the life
  of his servants; none of those who take refuge in him will be condemned.

We make it our aim to please him:

  II Corinthians 5:9-12 - So whether we are at home or away, we make it our
  aim to please him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of
  Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in
  the body, whether good or evil. Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we
  persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I hope it is known
  also to your conscience. We are not commending ourselves to you again but
  giving you cause to boast about us, so that you may be able to answer those
  who boast about outward appearance and not about what is in the heart.

  Proverbs 1:7 - The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge; fools
  despise wisdom and instruction.

  Proverbs 2:5 - then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the
  knowledge of God.

  Proverbs 8:13 - The fear of the Lord is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance
  and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate.

  Proverbs 9:10 - The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the
  knowledge of the Holy One is insight.

  Proverbs 10:27 - The fear of the Lord prolongs life, but the years of the
  wicked will be short.

  Proverbs 14:27 - The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, that one may
  turn away from the snares of death.

  Proverbs 15:33 - The fear of the Lord is instruction in wisdom, and
  humility comes before honor.

  Proverbs 19:23 - The fear of the Lord leads to life, and whoever has it
  rests satisfied; he will not be visited by harm.

6.4. Repentance does involve turning from sin

  Luke 24:46-47 - and said to them, Thus it is written, that the Christ
  should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance
  (G3341 metanoia) and forgiveness (G859 aphesis) of sins should be
  proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.

  Malachi 4:4-6 - Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and
  rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel. Behold, I will send you
  Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the LORD comes. And
  he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children and the hearts of
  children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of
  utter destruction. (ESV)

  Matthew 11:12-14 - From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom
  of heaven has suffered violence, and the violent take it by force. For all
  the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John, and if you are willing to
  accept it, he is Elijah who is to come.

  Mark 9:11-13 - And they asked him, Why do the scribes say that first Elijah
  must come? And he said to them, Elijah does come first to restore all
  things. And how is it written of the Son of Man that he should suffer many
  things and be treated with contempt? But I tell you that Elijah has come,
  and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it is written of him.

  Matthew 11:21-21 - Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the
  mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have
  repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I tell you, it will be more
  bearable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you.

6.4.1. Justification by having faith like Abraham in He who raised Jesus Christ
from the dead

Paul the Apostle met James, brother of Jesus:

  Galatians 1:15-20- But when he who had set me apart before I was born, and
  who called me by his grace, was pleased to reveal his Son to me, in order
  that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult
  with anyone; nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before
  me, but I went away into Arabia, and returned again to Damascus. Then after
  three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas and remained with him
  fifteen days. But I saw none of the other apostles except James the Lord's
  brother. (In what I am writing to you, before God, I do not lie! )

Interestingly, James believes that a person is justified not by faith alone,
but by works of faith:

  James 2:21-24 - Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he
  offered up Isaac his son on the altar? You see that faith was working with
  (4903. sunergeó) his works, and as a result of the works, faith was
  perfected; and the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “And Abraham
  believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness,” and he was
  called the friend of God. You see that a man is justified by works and not
  by faith alone.

Fear-of-God:

  Romans 4:5-8 - And to the one who does not work but trusts him who
  justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, just as David
  also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness
  apart from works: Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not
  count his sin.

AMEN!! But this doesn't mean the other elements of working faith can't play a
part.

We may rest from our labors when we die in the Lord:

  Revelation of John 14:13 - And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write
  this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed,
  says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds
  follow them! (ESV)

Circumcision of the flesh does not matter because salvation by faith is
available for both the circumcised (justification by faith with works of
faith like Abraham's), and the uncircumcised (justification by faith alone):

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe (G4100 pisteuo) without being circumcised, so
  that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the
  father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk
  in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

The true circumcised are the ones who obey the precepts of the law, and if
they walk in the footsteps of faith which Abraham had before he was
circumcised, then that is a valid mode of justification:

  Romans 2:25-29 - For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law,
  but if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So, if
  a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his
  uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically
  uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code
  and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one
  outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one
  inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by
  the letter. His praise is not from man but from God. (ESV)

We must share the faith of Abraham to receive the grace:

  Romans 4:13-17 - For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would
  be heir of the world did not come through the law but through the
  righteousness of faith. For if it is the adherents of the law who are to be
  the heirs, faith is null and the promise is void. For the law brings wrath,
  but where there is no law there is no transgression. That is why it depends
  on faith, in order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to
  all his offspring—not only to the adherent of the law but also to the one
  who shares the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all, as it is
  written, I have made you the father of many nations—in the presence of the
  God in whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls into
  existence the things that do not exist.

In hope, Abraham believed against hope. He didn't weaken in faith, even when
it seemed impossible. He trusted and believed God, and grew strong in his
faith and gave glory to God. We should do the same.

We must believe on Him (God) who raised Jesus from the dead, with the faith
that Abraham had - Abraham's faith was working. The faith at the start
justified him and the works justified him too.

If a person lives their life as a living sacrifice to honour and serve Jesus
Christ, which is honouring and having faith in God as a continuation of their
faith, then all of that is analogous to Abraham's works of faith.

  Romans 12:1-2 - I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God,
  to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God,
  which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be
  transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern
  what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

  Hebrews 13:15-16 - Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice
  of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. Do
  not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are
  pleasing to God. (ESV)

We must trust God in hope against hope, and not weaken in faith, and trust
God's promise, and honour Jesus Christ with our lives - that is what I
believe.

The most important thing is this faith - but God certainly uses our works of
faith:

Our salvation comes from faith alone in God for the promise of forgiveness
from sin and hope of eternal life with Christ Jesus for those who believe in
God who raised Jesus Christ from the dead, our Lord, who was delivered up for
our trespasses and raised for our justification.

It's because of what Jesus Christ has done that we are justified, not because
of anything we have done. We must trust in God to justify us we hold to our
faith.

  Romans 4:18-25 - In hope he believed (G4100 pisteuo) against hope, that he
  should become the father of many nations, as he had been told, So shall
  your offspring be. He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own
  body, which was as good as dead (since he was about a hundred years old),
  or when he considered the barrenness of Sarah's womb. No distrust made him
  waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he
  gave glory to God, fully convinced that God was able to do what he had
  promised. That is why his faith was counted to him as righteousness. But
  the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone, but
  for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe (G4100 pisteuo) in him
  who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our
  trespasses and raised for our justification.

Therefore, do not put your hope on how little faith you can have for Jesus
Christ to scrape through (because Jesus Christ is the judge), but instead
live for Him sincerely, doing as He has instructed us.

To follow and obey Jesus Christ with the same type of faith that Abraham had
- that is what we should be doing - that's saving faith, I think. Our
justification is based on what Jesus Christ has done.

Now as we live by faith, we are justified by this faith and have peace with
God through our Lord Jesus Christ who we are believing, following, obeying
and honouring.

And we only have access to the grace if we have faith:

  Romans 5:1-2 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also
  obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice
  in hope of the glory of God.

Faith involves obeying Jesus Christ:

  I John 2:3 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we keep
  his commandments.

  I John 5:3-4 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has been born of
  God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the
  world—our faith.

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:14 - so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come
  to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through
  faith. (ESV)

Jesus says you must obey God to be part of His family:

  Luke 8:21 - But He answered and said to them, “My mother and My brothers
  are these who hear the word of God and do it.”

Jesus implies you must obey Him (Jesus) to be part of His family:

  John 7:16 - So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who
  sent me.

So obeying Jesus Christ is having faith in God:

  Romans 4:23-25 - But the words it was counted to him were not written for
  his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe
  (G4100 pisteuo) in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was
  delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. (ESV)

6.5. The obedient children are the ones who are not conformed to the passions of
our former ignorance

  I Peter 1:14-16 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy.

6.5.1. Jesus Christ has explained what the faith of Abraham looks like for
someone who believes in Him

Repentance from sin, obeying Jesus Christ, making Jesus your Lord and
Saviour:

  Luke 19:1-10 - He entered Jericho and was passing through. And there was a
  man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich. And he was
  seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not,
  because he was small of stature. So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a
  sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way. And when Jesus
  came to the place, he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, hurry and come
  down, for I must stay at your house today. So he hurried and came down and
  received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all grumbled, He has gone
  in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said
  to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if
  I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said
  to him, Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of
  Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. (ESV)

  Hebrews 6:20 - where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having
  become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:20 - For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of
  the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
  (ESV)

6.6. Get to know Jesus by following His commandments

  Matthew 7:21-27 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in
  your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in
  your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew you; depart from
  me, you workers of lawlessness. Everyone then who hears these words of mine
  and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And
  the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that
  house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And
  everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a
  foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the
  floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell,
  and great was the fall of it. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:10 - Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. (ESV)

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

You must obey Jesus:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in the Son has eternal life;
  whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God
  remains on him. (ESV)

We must obey God. We have faith in God who was delivered up for our
trespasses and raised for our justification, and having faith in God is
having faith in His Son which is believing in and obeying Jesus Christ:

  Romans 4:23-25 - But the words it was counted to him were not written for
  his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe
  (G4100 pisteuo) in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was
  delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. (ESV)

pisteuo is the faith verb.

So the promise is for all who put their faith in God by obeying Jesus Christ
with the faith of Abraham to a greater or lesser degree.

6.7. The sons of disobedience are the ones who are conformed to sexual
immorality, impurity, or covetousness, etc.

  Ephesians 5:5-7 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is
  sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has
  no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you
  with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon
  the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not associate with them;

6.7.1. All sin is lawlessness

If we are led by the spirit then we are not under the Mosaic law. So we
should forsake sin as it is described by such works of the flesh as listed:

  Galatians 5:18-21 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  law. Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity,
  sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger,
  rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things
  like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such
  things will not inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

The law (Mosaic law) is laid down for those who are lawless and disobedient!:

  I Timothy 1:9 - understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the
  just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for
  the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for
  murderers, (ESV)

Sin is lawlessness:

  I John 3:4 - Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices
  lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. (ESV)

We are under Christ's law, not the Mosaic law:

  I Corinthians 9:21 - To those outside the law I became as one outside the
  law (not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ) that I
  might win those outside the law.

We must have faith in Jesus to be justified by faith. God justifies the
person who trusts in Jesus and since we trust Jesus we should be doers of
Christ's law (which is not outside the law of God, so we are doers of the
law), and God justifies the person with the blood of Jesus. If we're trusting
in Jesus then we're trusting in God who justifies the ungodly. We're not
trusting in God to justify our ungodliness, but to justify us as we keep our
faith in Jesus:

  Romans 2:13-16 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous
  before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. For when
  Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they
  are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show
  that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience
  also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse
  them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of
  men by Christ Jesus. (ESV)

We must abide in the teachings of Jesus, believing what Jesus has said,
believing Jesus:

  John 5:37-38 - And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about
  me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you
  do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he
  has sent. (ESV)

  Job 22:30 - He delivers even the one who is not innocent, who will be
  delivered through the cleanness of your hands. (ESV)

  Hebrews 13:8 - Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.
  (ESV)

In His flesh the emnity, which is the Law of commandments contained in
ordinances is abolished:

  Ephesians 2:14-16 - For He Himself is our peace, who made both groups into
  one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall, by abolishing in His
  flesh the enmity, which is the Law of commandments contained in ordinances,
  so that in Himself He might make the two into one new man, thus
  establishing peace, and might reconcile them both in one body to God
  through the cross, by it having put to death the enmity. (NASB)

Instead of being under the law, we seek to live for Christ, and follow
Christ's teaching:

  Galatians 6:12 - It is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh
  who would force you to be circumcised, and only in order that they may not
  be persecuted for the cross of Christ. (ESV)

Within Christ there is peace:

  Galatians 5:13 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use
  your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one
  another. (ESV)

We follow Jesus and obey His commandments:

  Galatians 5:14 - For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. (ESV)

  Galatians 6:2 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ. (ESV)

We must feed on His flesh to abide in Him:

  John 6:53 - So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you
  eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in
  you. (ESV)

  John 6:55-56 - For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink.
  Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him.
  (ESV)

Jesus' flesh is the way into the holy places:

  Hebrews 10:19-20 - Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter
  the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he
  opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh, (ESV)

Jesus suffered in the flesh, and we should too, and stop sinning:

  I Peter 4:1 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves
  with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has
  ceased from sin, (ESV)

  Colossians 1:24 - Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my
  flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake
  of his body, that is, the church, (ESV)

We're justified by our faith in Christ. We simply follow Jesus:

  Galatians 5:4 - You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by
  the law; you have fallen away from grace. (ESV)

There are lawless spirits (spirits which work things like idolatry, and
falsehood; anything which is against the truth):

  II Thessalonians 2:7-13 - For the mystery of lawlessness is already at
  work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way.
  And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill
  with the breath of his mouth and bring to nothing by the appearance of his
  coming. The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan with all
  power and false signs and wonders, and with all wicked deception for those
  who are perishing, because they refused to love the truth and so be saved.
  Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so that they may believe what
  is false, in order that all may be condemned who did not believe the truth
  but had pleasure in unrighteousness. But we ought always to give thanks to
  God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the
  firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in
  the truth. (ESV)

Lawlessness includes idolatry:

  I Peter 4:3 - The time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles
  want to do, living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking
  parties, and lawless idolatry. (ESV)

If idolatry is lawlessness then so is falsely witnessing, so is sexual
immorality, adultery, murder/hate, etc. And the Apostles in the New Testament
and Jesus, and the Bible generally testifies that we must stop being lawless!

Lawlessness includes hate/murder:

  Matthew 24:10-13 - And then many will fall away and betray one another and
  hate one another. And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray.
  And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold.
  But the one who endures to the end will be saved. (ESV)

We are commanded by Paul the Apostle to present our members as slaves to
righteousness leading to sanctification - that's called repentance from sin,
folks!:

  Romans 6:19 - I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. (ESV)

Here, I read light as basically a synonym for the truth:

  I John 1:7 - But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
  fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
  from all sin. (ESV)

  I John 2:9-11 - Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is
  still in darkness. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in
  him there is no cause for stumbling. But whoever hates his brother is in
  the darkness and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is
  going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes. (ESV)

Having fellowship with Him (Jesus) involves practicing the Truth as much as
it involves believing the truth:

  I John 1:6 - If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in
  darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. (ESV)

We were purchased with the precious blood of Jesus Christ and we are supposed
to be changed and purified to no longer being lawless!:

  Titus 2:14 - who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and
  to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for
  good works. (ESV)

We confess as sinful what the Bible says is sinful, then when we are tempted
to obey unrighteousness we instead obey Righteousness (we obey Jesus) and
when we continue learning from Jesus we believe and affirm what He says,
becoming sanctified by the Truth as we go, while holding to the Truth of who
He is with belief in His name (onoma) we also maintain we are forgiven by
faith in His name. For example, if we confess that what is sinful is sinful
instead of denying that it is sinful then when we are tempted to commit sin,
we instead choose to put our time/money/effort that would have been spent
practicing that sinful (such as a vice) towards supporting your neighbour out
of obedience to Jesus (especially those you consider are in the family of
Christ), we are being sanctified by obedience to the truth:

  I John 1:9 - If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
  our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. (ESV)

Believe and obey Jesus:

  Luke 6:32-36 - If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you?
  For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who
  do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.
  And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is
  that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to get back the same amount. But
  love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and
  your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is
  kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful, even as your Father is
  merciful. (ESV)

We must submit to the Righteousness of God, and that means accepting the
testimony of God regarding His Son:

  John 3:19 - And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world,
  and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their deeds
  were evil. (ESV)

  I John 4:10 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved
  us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. (ESV)

  John 9:39 - Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, that those who
  do not see may see, and those who see may become blindn. (ESV)

So the righteous ones walk in the light as He is in the light, believing and
obeying Jesus, loving their neighbour as Jesus loved them first, and they
submit to the Righteousness of God (Jesus Christ).

Our faith we keep between ourself and God. You're accountable to Jesus for
your beliefs:

  Romans 14:22 - The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God.
  Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what
  he approves. (ESV)

We must not allow ourselves to be conformed to or carried away by the error
of lawless people. The error is their lawlessness:

  II Peter 3:17 - You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care
  that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people and lose
  your own stability. (ESV)

We must follow Jesus, and obey Jesus and stop obeying sin!

  Matthew 7:21-24 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in
  your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in
  your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew you; depart from
  me, you workers of lawlessness. Everyone then who hears these words of mine
  and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock.
  (ESV)

Part of the will of Father God is that we repent/turn away from sin to start
serving Jesus:

  I Thessalonians 4:3-7 - For this is the will of God, your sanctification:
  that you abstain from sexual immorality; that each one of you know how to
  control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust like
  the Gentiles who do not know God; that no one transgress and wrong his
  brother in this matter, because the Lord is an avenger in all these things,
  as we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you. For God has not called
  us for impurity, but in holiness. (ESV)

7. Try to clarify what sin looks like from Bible verses

• 1. Rejecting Jesus
• John 15:22-24 - If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not
have been guilty of sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin.
Whoever hates me hates my Father also. If I had not done among them
the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin, but
now they have seen and hated both me and my Father. (ESV)
• 2. Disobeying God - absolutely 100%
• Romans 5:19 - For as by the one man's disobedience the many were
made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made
righteous.
• Breaking God's law? Sure.
• Breaking the Mosaic Law is sin for Jews and disobedient people.
• Christians still 'do' the law in faith but don't rely on
perfectly doing it for their justification, and don't rely on
perfect compliance to it for their justification. We still rely
on faith in Jesus for our justification. But the law outlaws a
lot of sinful practices which are still very damaging to us
• 3. An evil heart or mind which is hostile to God
• 4. Evil deeds. Absolutely How is that defined though?
• I would say it's breaking the Great Commandments
• To not love God with all one's heart, mind, soul and strength, and
to not love their neighbour.

7.1. Iniquity and sin: In this case, sin is the verb, I think, and iniquity is
the noun

  Job 10:14 - If I sin, you watch me and do not acquit me of my iniquity.
  (ESV)

  Job 14:16-17 - For then you would number my steps; you would not keep watch
  over my sin; my transgression would be sealed up in a bag, and you would
  cover over my iniquity. (ESV)

  Psalms 38:18 - I confess my iniquity; I am sorry for my sin. (ESV)

  Psalms 51:2 - Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my
  sin! (ESV)

7.2. God searches the heart and tests the mind

  Jeremiah 17:10 - I the LORD search the heart and test the mind, to give
  every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds. (ESV)

  Proverbs 5:21 - For a man's ways are before the eyes of the LORD, and he
  ponders all his paths. (ESV)

  Job 10:4-8 - Have you eyes of flesh? Do you see as man sees? Are your days
  as the days of man, or your years as a man's years, that you seek out my
  iniquity and search for my sin, although you know that I am not guilty, and
  there is none to deliver out of your hand? Your hands fashioned and made
  me, and now you have destroyed me altogether. (ESV)

We should ask God to search our heart, and our thoughts, and try us:

  Psalms 139:23-24 - Search me, O God, and know my heart! Try me and know my
  thoughts! And see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the
  way everlasting! (ESV)

  Psalms 19:14 - Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be
  acceptable in your sight, O LORD, my rock and my redeemer. (ESV)

7.3. The law is laid down for the sinners

Sinners:

• the lawless and disobedient,
• the ungodly,
• and sinners,
• the unholy and profane

  I Timothy 1:9 - understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the
  just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for
  the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for
  murderers, (ESV)

7.4. Whoever transgresses the law is liable to judgement

  Matthew 5:21 - You have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall
  not murder; and whoever murders will be liable to judgment. (ESV)

7.5. Anger leads to the matter being settled in God's court

Anger is not necessarily sinful but it has to be well-placed:

  Ephesians 4:26-27 - Be angry and do not sin; do not let the sun go down on
  your anger, and give no opportunity to the devil. (ESV)

If someone is angry with his brother, then God may take this matter to
judgement:

  Matthew 5:22 - But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother
  will be liable to judgment; whoever insults his brother will be liable to
  the council; and whoever says, You fool! will be liable to the hell of
  fire. (ESV)

If you're unrighteously angry then watch out:

  John 7:19-25 - Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the
  law. Why do you seek to kill me? The crowd answered, You have a demon! Who
  is seeking to kill you? Jesus answered them, I did one deed, and you all
  marvel at it. Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but
  from the fathers), and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath. If on the
  Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be
  broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole
  body well? Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment. Some
  of the people of Jerusalem therefore said, Is not this the man whom they
  seek to kill? (ESV)

3709. orgé
"Orgē comes from the verb oragō meaning, 'to teem, to swell'; and thus
implies that it is not a sudden outburst, but rather (referring to God's)
fixed, controlled, passionate feeling against sin . . . a settled indignation
(so Hendriksen)" (D. E. Hiebert, at 1 Thes 1:10).

Jesus' anger here was a godly grief:

  Mark 3:4-5 - And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or
  to do harm, to save life or to kill? But they were silent. And he looked
  around at them with anger (3709. orgé), grieved at their hardness of heart,
  and said to the man, Stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his
  hand was restored. (ESV)

We must forgive our family in Christ from the heart:

  Matthew 18:33-35 - And should not you have had mercy on your fellow
  servant, as I had mercy on you? And in anger his master delivered him to
  the jailers, until he should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly Father
  will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from your
  heart. (ESV)

The "anger of man" is exemplified in John 7:23 where some people blindly were
angry at Jesus for doing good:

  James 1:19-21 - Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick
  to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger; for the anger of man does not
  produce the righteousness that God requires. Therefore put away all
  filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted
  word, which is able to save your souls. (ESV)

God's anger is just and He is Righteous:

  Psalms 7:11 - God is a righteous judge, and a God who feels indignation
  every day. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 6:15 - for the LORD your God in your midst is a jealous God,
  lest the anger of the LORD your God be kindled against you, and he destroy
  you from off the face of the earth. (ESV)

  Nahum 1:2-3 - The LORD is a jealous and avenging God; the LORD is avenging
  and wrathful; the LORD takes vengeance on his adversaries and keeps wrath
  for his enemies. The LORD is slow to anger and great in power, and the LORD
  will by no means clear the guilty. His way is in whirlwind and storm, and
  the clouds are the dust of his feet. (ESV)

  Nahum 1:2-3 - God is jealous, and the LORD revengeth; the LORD revengeth,
  and is furious; the LORD will take vengeance on his adversaries, and he
  reserveth wrath for his enemies. The LORD is slow to anger, and great in
  power, and will not at all acquit the wicked: the LORD hath his way in the
  whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet. (KJV)

  John 17:25 - O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I
  know you, and these know that you have sent me. (ESV)

youtube.com: John Piper - Saved Forever

If I say my ongoing salvation depends on Christ's ongoing intercessory work
for me with the Father, what do I need need saving from? The Father, God,
else I would not need an intercessor.

Intercessors interpose themselves to help fix something that isn't fixed, or
to keep something fixed.

The big issue is God's wrath.

This book (the Holy Scriptures) … was written to help us get right with a
wrathful God.

youtube.com: Saved Forever @time: 11 min 17 sec

Do not conclude from my first implication that Jesus loves me and God hates
me, okay? Let's get this straight. Now the reason that would be a false
conclusion is because the priesthood is God's idea, not Jesus idea, and Jesus
accepted the father's mandate to come save me from his wrath. You got that?
The love of God for me, sinner, interposes his Priestly son to save me from
his wrath against me.

The love of God for this worthless sinner interposes his most precious
possession, His Son whom he loves, in order that he might save me from his
his wrath against me all the while vindicating his justice and upholding his
glory in the cross.

That's the beauty of the cross. It is the love of God rescuing sinners from
the wrath of God by vindicating the justice of God and upholding the glory of
God.

You got to get that otherwise you will sentimentalize God and people are
sentimentalizing God everywhere.

7.6. Sin - what does it look like

• doing and devising and being evil
• disobedience to God
• divination
• iniquity
• idolatry
• profaning what is holy
• lies
• adultery
• murder, which includes abortion
• strengthening the hands of evildoers - supporting evildoers
• self-pride, and prideful sin
• evil thoughts, inventing evil
• sexual immorality
• theft
• false-witness
• slander, gossip
• works of iniquity
• thoughts of iniquity
• in the heart, breaking God's 10 commandments
• envy, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers,
haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil,
disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless.

7.6.1. Transgressing the 10 Commandments

The way to keep the 10 commandments properly is to love your neighbour as
yourself. It's lawful to love. It's lawful to save life. It's overarchingly
lawful to do good. If we endeavour to keep the 10 commandments, then that is
how we should keep them; the way Jesus did and described:

  Galatians 5:13-14 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not
  use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve
  one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. (ESV)

It's lawful to love:

  Luke 6:9-10 - And Jesus said to them, I ask you, is it lawful on the
  Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to destroy it? And after
  looking around at them all he said to him, Stretch out your hand. And he
  did so, and his hand was restored. (ESV)

Slaves worship idols. Christians obey God, and in obeying God we are free. We
love God and trust God and love Jesus and follow Jesus:

  Exodus 20:2-3 - I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of
  Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me.
  (ESV)

The New Testament writers still taught believers to not break the 10
Commandments:

  James 2:11 - For he who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not
  murder. If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a
  transgressor of the law. (ESV)

  Romans 13:9 - The commandments, You shall not commit adultery, You shall
  not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet, and any other
  commandment, are summed up in this word: You shall love your neighbor as
  yourself. (ESV)

Even as born-again Christians, keeping the 10 Commandments is very important.
Just because we may be justified by faith in Jesus Christ doesn't mean that
followers of Jesus obey unrighteousness. Followers of Jesus still obey
righteousness:

  Romans 1:29-2:13 - They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness,
  evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit,
  maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent,
  haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish,
  faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's decree that those
  who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give
  approval to those who practice them. Therefore you have no excuse, O man,
  every one of you who judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn
  yourself, because you, the judge, practice the very same things. We know
  that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who do such things. Do you
  suppose, O man—you who judge those who do such things and yet do them
  yourself—that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you presume on the
  riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's
  kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and
  impenitent heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath
  when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one
  according to his works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for
  glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those
  who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness,
  there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for
  every human being who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek, but
  glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and
  also the Greek. For God shows no partiality. For all who have sinned
  without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned
  under the law will be judged by the law. For it is not the hearers of the
  law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be
  justified. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:8-11 - Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it
  lawfully, understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just
  but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the
  unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for
  murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers,
  liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine, in
  accordance with the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have
  been entrusted. (ESV)

The righteousness in the actual doing of the law above is still upheld but
there is now the righteousness that is by faith in Jesus Christ. In other
words, keeping the commandments of God and following Jesus are not mutually
exclusive. And the law still describes what good behaviour looks like and
what bad behaviour looks like. But through the redemption that is in Christ
Jesus, as we follow and place our faith in Jesus, obeying Jesus to repent
from sin and to do good and to pass forward love and forgiveness, etc., we
can be justified by our faith in Jesus. As we go on living, we keep our
obedient believing faith in Jesus, and no longer want to rebel against God's
law. Perfect compliance to the law is no longer the basis of our
justification but we seek to not break the law:

  Romans 3:21-31 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Then what becomes of our
  boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but
  by the law of faith. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from
  works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of
  Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one. He will justify the
  circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then
  overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold
  the law. (ESV)

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
#      Bible reference        Verses to show these commandments are still
important
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
II Corinthians 6:16-17 - What agreement has the
temple of God with idols? For we are the temple
of the living God; as God said, I will make my
dwelling among them and walk among them, and I
will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Therefore go out from their midst, and be
separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no
unclean thing; then I will welcome you, (ESV) I
John 5:21 - Little children, keep yourselves
from idols. (ESV) I Corinthians 10:11-14 - Now
these things happened to them as an example,
Exodus 20:2-3 - I am     but they were written down for our instruction,
the LORD your God, who   on whom the end of the ages has come. Therefore
brought you out of the   let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed
1  land of Egypt, out of    lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you
the house of slavery.    that is not common to man. God is faithful, and
You shall have no other  he will not let you be tempted beyond your
gods before me. (ESV)    ability, but with the temptation he will also
provide the way of escape, that you may be able
to endure it. Therefore, my beloved, flee from
idolatry. (ESV) I Corinthians 10:7 - Do not be
idolaters as some of them were; as it is
written, The people sat down to eat and drink
and rose up to play. (ESV) I John 4:19 - We
love because he first loved us. (ESV) I John
| 10-11 - In this is love, not that we have
loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son
to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved,
if God so loved us, we also ought to love one
another. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
#           Bible reference           Verses to show these commandments are
still important
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Acts 17:29 - Being then God's
Exodus 20:4-6 - You shall not      offspring, we ought not to think that
make for yourself a carved image,  the divine being is like gold or
or any likeness of anything that   silver or stone, an image formed by
is in heaven above, or that is in  the art and imagination of man. (ESV)
the earth beneath, or that is in   Romans 1:23 - and exchanged the glory
the water under the earth. You     of the immortal God for images
shall not bow down to them or      resembling mortal man and birds and
2  serve them, for I the LORD your    animals and reptiles. (ESV) Psalms
God am a jealous God, visiting     97:7 - All worshipers of images are
the iniquity of the fathers on     put to shame, who make their boast in
the children to the third and the  worthless idols; worship him, all you
fourth generation of those who     gods! (ESV) Revelation of John 16:2 -
hate me, but showing steadfast     So the first angel went and poured
love to thousands of those who     out his bowl on the earth, and
love me and keep my commandments.  harmful and painful sores came upon
(ESV)                              the people who bore the mark of the
beast and worshiped its image. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
#         Bible reference           Verses to show these commandments are
still important
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Exodus 20:7 - You shall not     James 5:12 - But above all, my brothers,
take the name of the LORD your  do not swear, either by heaven or by
3  God in vain, for the LORD will  earth or by any other oath, but let your
not hold him guiltless who      yes be yes and your no be no, so that
takes his name in vain. (ESV)   you may not fall under condemnation.
(ESV)
Genesis 2:3 - So God blessed the seventh
Exodus 20:8-11 - Remember the   day and made it holy, because on it God
Sabbath day, to keep it holy.   rested from all his work that he had
Six days you shall labor, and   done in creation. (ESV) Luke 23:56 -
do all your work, but the       Then they returned and prepared spices
seventh day is a Sabbath to     and ointments. On the Sabbath they
the LORD your God. On it you    rested according to the commandment.
shall not do any work, you, or  (ESV) Mark 2:27-28 - And he said to
your son, or your daughter,     them, The Sabbath was made for man, not
your male servant, or your      man for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man
4  female servant, or your         is lord even of the Sabbath. (ESV)
livestock, or the sojourner     Colossians 2:16-17 - Therefore let no
who is within your gates. For   one pass judgment on you in questions of
in six days the LORD made       food and drink, or with regard to a
heaven and earth, the sea, and  festival or a new moon or a Sabbath.
all that is in them, and        These are a shadow of the things to
rested the seventh day.         come, but the substance belongs to
Therefore the LORD blessed the  Christ. (ESV) Hebrews 10:25 - not
Sabbath day and made it holy.   neglecting to meet together, as is the
(ESV)                           habit of some, but encouraging one
another, and all the more as you see the
Day drawing near. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
#       Bible reference        Verses to show these commandments are still
important
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
We should follow God's commandments to love
Exodus 20:12 - Honor your  him and so that things go well with us.
father and your mother,    Ephesians 6:1-3 - Children, obey your parents
5  that your days may be      in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your
long in the land that the  father and mother (this is the first
LORD your God is giving    commandment with a promise), that it may go
you. (ESV)                 well with you and that you may live long in
the land. (ESV)
I John 3:15 - Everyone who hates his brother
is a murderer, and you know that no murderer
has eternal life abiding in him. (ESV) Romans
6  Exodus 20:13 - You shall   13:9 - The commandments, You shall not commit
not murder. (ESV)          adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not
steal, You shall not covet, and any other
commandment, are summed up in this word: You
shall love your neighbor as yourself. (ESV)
Proverbs 6:32 - He who commits adultery lacks
sense; he who does it destroys himself. (ESV)
Romans 7:2-3 - Thus a married woman is bound
by law to her husband while he lives, but if
Exodus 20:14 - You shall   her husband dies she is released from the law
7  not commit adultery.       of marriage. Accordingly, she will be called
(ESV)                      an adulteress if she lives with another man
while her husband is alive. But if her
husband dies, she is free from that law, and
if she marries another man she is not an
adulteress. (ESV)
Ephesians 4:28 - Let the thief no longer
8  Exodus 20:15 - You shall   steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest
not steal. (ESV)           work with his own hands, so that he may have
something to share with anyone in need. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
#        Bible reference       Verses to show these commandments are still
important
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
I Timothy 1:8-11 - Now we know that the law
is good, if one uses it lawfully,
understanding this, that the law is not laid
down for the just but for the lawless and
Exodus 20:16 - You shall   disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners,
not bear false witness     for the unholy and profane, for those who
9   against your neighbor.     strike their fathers and mothers, for
(ESV)                      murderers, the sexually immoral, men who
practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars,
perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to
sound doctrine, in accordance with the
glorious gospel of the blessed God with
which I have been entrusted. (ESV)
Ephesians 5:3 - But sexual immorality and
all impurity or covetousness must not even
be named among you, as is proper among
saints. (ESV) Luke 12:15 - And he said to
them, Take care, and be on your guard
against all covetousness, for one's life
does not consist in the abundance of his
possessions. (ESV) Romans 13:9 - The
Exodus 20:17 - You shall   commandments, You shall not commit adultery,
not covet your neighbor's  You shall not murder, You shall not steal,
house; you shall not       You shall not covet, and any other
covet your neighbor's      commandment, are summed up in this word: You
10  wife, or his male          shall love your neighbor as yourself. (ESV)
servant, or his female     Colossians 3:5 - Put to death therefore what
servant, or his ox, or     is earthly in you: sexual immorality,
his donkey, or anything    impurity, passion, evil desire, and
that is your neighbor's.   covetousness, which is idolatry. (ESV)
(ESV)                      Romans 7:7-8 - What then shall we say? That
the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had
not been for the law, I would not have known
sin. I would not have known what it is to
covet if the law had not said, You shall not
covet. But sin, seizing an opportunity
through the commandment, produced in me all
kinds of covetousness. Apart from the law,
sin lies dead. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Quote from a friend
"God's will is going to be done. If we don't resist it then it will be a
blessing to us and if we resist it then it will be a curse to us."

7.6.2. Having a will to do evil, rather than a will to do God's will

  John 8:44 - You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your
  father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to
  do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he
  speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 15:19 - For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery,
  sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. (ESV)

7.6.3. All manner of unrighteousness

  Romans 1:26-32 - For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions.
  For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to
  nature; and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were
  consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with
  men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. And since
  they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind
  to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of
  unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder,
  strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God,
  insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents,
  foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's decree that
  those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but
  give approval to those who practice them. (ESV)

7.6.4. Murder

  I John 3:15 - Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know
  that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. (ESV)

  I John 3:12 - We should not be like Cain, who was of the evil one and
  murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own deeds were
  evil and his brother's righteous. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 22:15 - Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and the
  sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and
  practices falsehood. (ESV)

7.6.5. Theft

  Revelation of John 9:21 - nor did they repent of their murders or their
  sorceries or their sexual immorality or their thefts. (ESV)

7.6.6. Rejecting the word of the LORD

  Isaiah 30:9-13 - For they are a rebellious people, lying children, children
  unwilling to hear the instruction of the LORD; who say to the seers, Do not
  see, and to the prophets, Do not prophesy to us what is right; speak to us
  smooth things, prophesy illusions, leave the way, turn aside from the path,
  let us hear no more about the Holy One of Israel. Therefore thus says the
  Holy One of Israel, Because you despise this word and trust in oppression
  and perverseness and rely on them, therefore this iniquity shall be to you
  like a breach in a high wall, bulging out, and about to collapse, whose
  breaking comes suddenly, in an instant; (ESV)

  1 Samuel 15:23 - For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption
  is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the
  LORD, he has also rejected you from being king. (ESV)

7.6.7. Presumption and going beyond the Scripture

  I Corinthians 4:6 - I have applied all these things to myself and Apollos
  for your benefit, brothers, that you may learn by us not to go beyond what
  is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against
  another. (ESV)

  II John 1:9 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching
  of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the
  Father and the Son. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 10:5-6 - We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised
  against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey
  Christ, being ready to punish every disobedience, when your obedience is
  complete. (ESV)

  Psalms 19:13 - Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins; let them
  not have dominion over me! Then I shall be blameless, and innocent of great
  transgression. (ESV)

  I Samuel 15:23 - For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption
  is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the
  LORD, he has also rejected you from being king. (ESV)

7.6.8. Wandering / backsliding from God

  Jeremiah 14:7 - Though our iniquities testify against us, act, O LORD, for
  your name's sake; for our backslidings are many; we have sinned against
  you. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 14:10 - Thus says the LORD concerning this people: They have loved
  to wander thus; they have not restrained their feet; therefore the LORD
  does not accept them; now he will remember their iniquity and punish their
  sins. (ESV)

7.6.9. Prophesying lies

  Jeremiah 14:14 - And the LORD said to me: The prophets are prophesying lies
  in my name. I did not send them, nor did I command them or speak to them.
  They are prophesying to you a lying vision, worthless divination, and the
  deceit of their own minds. (ESV)

7.6.10. Ungodliness

  Isaiah 32:6 - For the fool speaks folly, and his heart is busy with
  iniquity, to practice ungodliness, to utter error concerning the LORD, to
  leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied, and to deprive the thirsty of
  drink. (ESV)

7.6.11. Pride, debauchery, greed

  Ezekiel 16:49-58 - Behold, this was the guilt of your sister Sodom: she and
  her daughters had pride, excess of food, and prosperous ease, but did not
  aid the poor and needy. They were haughty and did an abomination before me.
  So I removed them, when I saw it. Samaria has not committed half your sins.
  You have committed more abominations than they, and have made your sisters
  appear righteous by all the abominations that you have committed. Bear your
  disgrace, you also, for you have intervened on behalf of your sisters.
  Because of your sins in which you acted more abominably than they, they are
  more in the right than you. So be ashamed, you also, and bear your
  disgrace, for you have made your sisters appear righteous. I will restore
  their fortunes, both the fortunes of Sodom and her daughters, and the
  fortunes of Samaria and her daughters, and I will restore your own fortunes
  in their midst, that you may bear your disgrace and be ashamed of all that
  you have done, becoming a consolation to them. As for your sisters, Sodom
  and her daughters shall return to their former state, and Samaria and her
  daughters shall return to their former state, and you and your daughters
  shall return to your former state. Was not your sister Sodom a byword in
  your mouth in the day of your pride, before your wickedness was uncovered?
  Now you have become an object of reproach for the daughters of Syria and
  all those around her, and for the daughters of the Philistines, those all
  around who despise you. You bear the penalty of your lewdness and your
  abominations, declares the LORD. (ESV)

7.6.12. Pride in self and lack of humility towards God

youtube.com: The Great Sin by C. S. Lewis Doodle {BBC Talk 16, Mere
Christianity, Bk. 3, Chapter 8}.

  Psalms 36:2 - For he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity
  cannot be found out and hated. (ESV)

  Psalms 10:10-11 - The helpless are crushed, sink down, and fall by his
  might. He says in his heart, God has forgotten, he has hidden his face, he
  will never see it. (ESV)

  Isaiah 13:11 - I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for
  their iniquity; I will put an end to the pomp of the arrogant, and lay low
  the pompous pride of the ruthless. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Pride is self-satisfaction."

  Hosea 13:4-6 - But I am the LORD your God from the land of Egypt; you know
  no God but me, and besides me there is no savior. It was I who knew you in
  the wilderness, in the land of drought; but when they had grazed, they
  became full, they were filled, and their heart was lifted up; therefore
  they forgot me. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Pride is self-sufficiency / self-reliance."

  Deuteronomy 8:11-16 - Take care lest you forget the LORD your God by not
  keeping his commandments and his rules and his statutes, which I command
  you today, lest, when you have eaten and are full and have built good
  houses and live in them, and when your herds and flocks multiply and your
  silver and gold is multiplied and all that you have is multiplied, then
  your heart be lifted up, and you forget the LORD your God, who brought you
  out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery, who led you through
  the great and terrifying wilderness, with its fiery serpents and scorpions
  and thirsty ground where there was no water, who brought you water out of
  the flinty rock, who fed you in the wilderness with manna that your fathers
  did not know, that he might humble you and test you, to do you good in the
  end. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Pride considers itself above instruction [from God] - When God speaks and we
don't listen."

  Jeremiah 13:9-11 - Thus says the LORD: Even so will I spoil the pride of
  Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem. This evil people, who refuse to
  hear my words, who stubbornly follow their own heart and have gone after
  other gods to serve them and worship them, shall be like this loincloth,
  which is good for nothing. For as the loincloth clings to the waist of a
  man, so I made the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah cling
  to me, declares the LORD, that they might be for me a people, a name, a
  praise, and a glory, but they would not listen. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Pride is insubordinate. [It says,] You don't have a right to tell me what to
do. That's what happened in the Garden of Eden right at the beginning of our
sinful plight. And that's what all of us do apart from God's grace."

  Psalms 119:21 - You rebuke the insolent, accursed ones, who wander from
  your commandments. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Pride takes credit for what God alone does."

  Daniel 4:30-34 - and the king answered and said, Is not this great Babylon,
  which I have built by my mighty power as a royal residence and for the
  glory of my majesty? While the words were still in the king's mouth, there
  fell a voice from heaven, O King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken: The
  kingdom has departed from you, and you shall be driven from among men, and
  your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. And you shall be made
  to eat grass like an ox, and seven periods of time shall pass over you,
  until you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to
  whom he will. Immediately the word was fulfilled against Nebuchadnezzar. He
  was driven from among men and ate grass like an ox, and his body was wet
  with the dew of heaven till his hair grew as long as eagles' feathers, and
  his nails were like birds' claws. At the end of the days I, Nebuchadnezzar,
  lifted my eyes to heaven, and my reason returned to me, and I blessed the
  Most High, and praised and honored him who lives forever, for his dominion
  is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom endures from generation to
  generation; (ESV)

  Daniel 4:37 - Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of
  heaven, for all his works are right and his ways are just; and those who
  walk in pride he is able to humble. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Pride exalts in being made much of."

  Matthew 23:6-7 - and they love the place of honor at feasts and the best
  seats in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces and being called
  rabbi by others. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Pride aspires to the place of God."

  Acts 12:21-23 - On an appointed day Herod put on his royal robes, took his
  seat upon the throne, and delivered an oration to them. And the people were
  shouting, The voice of a god, and not of a man! Immediately an angel of the
  Lord struck him down, because he did not give God the glory, and he was
  eaten by worms and breathed his last. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Pride opposes the very existence of God."

  Psalms 10:4 - In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him; all
  his thoughts are, There is no God. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Pride refuses to trust in God. The opposite of arrogance is not just
humility, it's trust. Trust is a very lowly demeanor. [Trust is] a way of
saying I don't have what I need in here; I have to trust somebody else to
give it to me. I don't have the resources in here to save me, to forgive me,
to reconcile me to God, to lead my life in a holy way, to be what my family
needs from me, to be what a church needs from me. I do not have th the
resources, I cannot do it. And you look around for an answer and God says, I
have a mighty hand and I promise you I will care for you. Trust me. Pride
cringes at the prospect of saying, I am bankrupt and helpless. I need another
to save me, and help me and lead me and guide me, and hold me and strengthen
me. Everything comes from outside me. Only humility can talk that way. Trust
in the promise of God is the expression of humility."

Arrogance is contrasted with trust in God:

  Proverbs 28:25 - A greedy man stirs up strife, but the one who trusts in
  the LORD will be enriched. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Pride is often anxious about the future."

Anxiety flows from pride. If we don't trust God we will be anxious about the
future:

  I Peter 5:6-7 - Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God
  so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on
  him, because he cares for you. (ESV)

7.6.13. Discouraging the righteous, encouraging the wicked, even to misguide
them to harm

  Ezekiel 13:22 - Because you have disheartened the righteous falsely,
  although I have not grieved him, and you have encouraged the wicked, that
  he should not turn from his evil way to save his life, (ESV)

  Isaiah 31:2 - And yet he is wise and brings disaster; he does not call back
  his words, but will arise against the house of the evildoers and against
  the helpers of those who work iniquity. (ESV)

7.6.14. Dishonesty

  Isaiah 59:4-8 - No one enters suit justly; no one goes to law honestly;
  they rely on empty pleas, they speak lies, they conceive mischief and give
  birth to iniquity. They hatch adders' eggs; they weave the spider's web; he
  who eats their eggs dies, and from one that is crushed a viper is hatched.
  Their webs will not serve as clothing; men will not cover themselves with
  what they make. Their works are works of iniquity, and deeds of violence
  are in their hands. Their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed
  innocent blood; their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; desolation and
  destruction are in their highways. The way of peace they do not know, and
  there is no justice in their paths; they have made their roads crooked; no
  one who treads on them knows peace. (ESV)

7.6.15. Lies and adultery

  Jeremiah 23:14 - But in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen a horrible
  thing: they commit adultery and walk in lies; they strengthen the hands of
  evildoers, so that no one turns from his evil; all of them have become like
  Sodom to me, and its inhabitants like Gomorrah. (ESV)

7.6.16. Iniquity

  II Samuel 7:14-15 - I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son.
  When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men, with
  the stripes of the sons of men, but my steadfast love will not depart from
  him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you. (ESV)

  Psalms 53:1 - The fool says in his heart, There is no God. They are
  corrupt, doing abominable iniquity; there is none who does good. (ESV)

7.6.17. Profaning what is holy

  Leviticus 19:8 - and everyone who eats it shall bear his iniquity, because
  he has profaned what is holy to the LORD, and that person shall be cut off
  from his people. (ESV)

7.6.18. Blasphemy

  I Samuel 3:13 - And I declare to him that I am about to punish his house
  forever, for the iniquity that he knew, because his sons were blaspheming
  God, and he did not restrain them. (ESV)

7.6.19. Lawlessness is sin - unresponsive and disobedient to God

  I John 3:4 - Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices
  lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. (ESV)

  Isaiah 53:6 - All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one
  to his own way; and the LORD has laid on him the iniquity of us all. (ESV)

7.6.20. Rebellion against God is sin

  Deuteronomy 9:7 - Remember and do not forget how you provoked the LORD your
  God to wrath in the wilderness. From the day you came out of the land of
  Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against the
  LORD. (ESV)

  Joshua 1:18 - Whoever rebels against your commandment and disobeys your
  words, whatever you command him, shall be put to death. Only be strong and
  courageous. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 13:5 - But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put
  to death, because he has taught rebellion against the LORD your God, who
  brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you out of the house of
  slavery, to make you leave the way in which the LORD your God commanded you
  to walk. So you shall purge the evil from your midst. (ESV)

  I Samuel 15:23 - For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption
  is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the
  LORD, he has also rejected you from being king. (ESV)

7.6.21. Not caring for the innocent

  Isaiah 59:7 - Their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent
  blood; their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; desolation and destruction
  are in their highways. (ESV)

7.6.22. Doing evil deeds is sin

  Colossians 1:21 - And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind,
  doing evil deeds, (ESV)

  Ecclesiastes 4:3 - But better than both is he who has not yet been and has
  not seen the evil deeds that are done under the sun. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 21:12 - O house of David! Thus says the LORD: Execute justice in
  the morning, and deliver from the hand of the oppressor him who has been
  robbed, lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn with none to quench it,
  because of your evil deeds. (ESV)

  Colossians 1:19-23 - For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to
  dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth
  or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. And you, who once
  were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled
  in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and
  blameless and above reproach before him, if indeed you continue in the
  faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that
  you heard, which has been proclaimed in all creation under heaven, and of
  which I, Paul, became a minister. (ESV)

7.6.23. unjust gain

  Isaiah 57:17 - Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain I was angry, I
  struck him; I hid my face and was angry, but he went on backsliding in the
  way of his own heart. (ESV)

7.6.24. dishonesty

  Isaiah 59:4 - No one enters suit justly; no one goes to law honestly; they
  rely on empty pleas, they speak lies, they conceive mischief and give birth
  to iniquity. (ESV)

7.6.25. idolatry

  Jeremiah 16:18 - But first I will doubly repay their iniquity and their
  sin, because they have polluted my land with the carcasses of their
  detestable idols, and have filled my inheritance with their abominations.
  (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:7 - Do not be idolaters as some of them were; as it is
  written, The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. (ESV)

Idolatry is incredibly self-destructive:

  Psalms 135:15-18 - The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work
  of human hands. They have mouths, but do not speak; they have eyes, but do
  not see; they have ears, but do not hear, nor is there any breath in their
  mouths. Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them!
  (ESV)

But we should worship God and be sanctified:

  Colossians 1:15 - He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of
  all creation. (ESV)

7.6.26. sexual immorality

  I Corinthians 10:8-9 - We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of
  them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We must not put
  Christ to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents,
  (ESV)

  Revelation of John 21:8 - But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the
  detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters,
  and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and
  sulfur, which is the second death. (ESV)

7.6.27. carnal, fleshly things, greed and self-indulgence

  James 5:5 - You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self-indulgence.
  You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. (ESV)

  Matthew 23:25-26 - Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of
  greed and self-indulgence. You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of
  the cup and the plate, that the outside also may be clean. (ESV)

7.6.28. unnatural desire

  I Corinthians 10:8-9 - We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of
  them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We must not put
  Christ to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents,
  (ESV)

  Colossians 2:23 - These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting
  self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of
  no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. (ESV)

Defiling passion defiles:

  II Peter 2:10 - and especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling
  passion and despise authority. Bold and willful, they do not tremble as
  they blaspheme the glorious ones, (ESV)

  Jude 1:7 - just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which
  likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire, serve
  as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire. (ESV)

7.6.29. Rape is very, very bad

  Deuteronomy 22:23-29 - If there is a betrothed virgin, and a man meets her
  in the city and lies with her, then you shall bring them both out to the
  gate of that city, and you shall stone them to death with stones, the young
  woman because she did not cry for help though she was in the city, and the
  man because he violated his neighbor's wife. So you shall purge the evil
  from your midst. But if in the open country a man meets a young woman who
  is betrothed, and the man seizes her and lies with her, then only the man
  who lay with her shall die. But you shall do nothing to the young woman;
  she has committed no offense punishable by death. For this case is like
  that of a man attacking and murdering his neighbor, because he met her in
  the open country, and though the betrothed young woman cried for help there
  was no one to rescue her. If a man meets a virgin who is not betrothed, and
  seizes her and lies with her, and they are found, then the man who lay with
  her shall give to the father of the young woman fifty shekels of silver,
  and she shall be his wife, because he has violated her. He may not divorce
  her all his days. (ESV)

7.6.30. Being habitually drunk is sinful

  I Corinthians 6:9-10 - Do you not know that the unrighteous will not
  inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually
  immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
  nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers
  will inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

I think John Piper's view on this is sound:

youtube.com: Is Drinking Alcohol a Sin?
It could be. Drinking water when you should be giving a glass to someone else
in need - that's sin. Drinking water when you should be paying more reverence
to the preaching of God's word - that's a sin. Drinking water when just
someone just warned you it's contaminated it may kill you - that sin. So
drinking water can be sin and presumably then alcohol could be sin, but it
may not be.

youtube.com: CAN CHRISTIANS DRINK/SMOKE?! {The Harsh Truth…}

7.6.31. Abortion

Abortion specifically has been condemned as a grave sin since the beginnings
of the Church.

The Church has always stood against abortion, and placed it right alongside
murder.

  Didache Chapter 2 - The Second Commandment: Grave Sin Forbidden. And the
  second commandment of the Teaching; You shall not commit murder, you shall
  not commit adultery, you shall not commit pederasty, you shall not commit
  fornication, you shall not steal, you shall not practice magic, you shall
  not practice witchcraft, you shall not murder a child by abortion nor kill
  that which is born. You shall not covet the things of your neighbor, you
  shall not swear, you shall not bear false witness, you shall not speak
  evil, you shall bear no grudge. You shall not be double-minded nor
  double-tongued, for to be double-tongued is a snare of death. Your speech
  shall not be false, nor empty, but fulfilled by deed. You shall not be
  covetous, nor rapacious, nor a hypocrite, nor evil disposed, nor haughty.
  You shall not take evil counsel against your neighbor. You shall not hate
  any man; but some you shall reprove, and concerning some you shall pray,
  and some you shall love more than your own life.

youtube.com: Girls told to remove Christian crosses at religious school hit
out against staff @time: 2 min 4 sec
Have a look at this exchange over the weekend. While Kamar Harris was
promoting abortion without limits, the entire crowd erupted into loud cheers.
But then a lone student in the crowd who is a Christian, and so pro-life,
called out "Jesus is Lord". Now, instinctively and without pause Kamala
mocked him telling him he was at the "wrong rally".

7.6.32. More sins condemned by the early Church

  Didache Chapter 3 - Other Sins Forbidden. My child, flee from every evil
  thing, and from every likeness of it. Be not prone to anger, for anger
  leads to murder. Be neither jealous, nor quarrelsome, nor of hot temper,
  for out of all these murders are engendered. My child, be not a lustful
  one. for lust leads to fornication. Be neither a filthy talker, nor of
  lofty eye, for out of all these adulteries are engendered. My child, be not
  an observer of omens, since it leads to idolatry. Be neither an enchanter,
  nor an astrologer, nor a purifier, nor be willing to took at these things,
  for out of all these idolatry is engendered. My child, be not a liar, since
  a lie leads to theft. Be neither money-loving, nor vainglorious, for out of
  all these thefts are engendered. My child, be not a murmurer, since it
  leads the way to blasphemy. Be neither self-willed nor evil-minded, for out
  of all these blasphemies are engendered. Rather, be meek, since the meek
  shall inherit the earth. Be long-suffering and pitiful and guileless and
  gentle and good and always trembling at the words which you have heard. You
  shall not exalt yourself, nor give over-confidence to your soul. Your soul
  shall not be joined with lofty ones, but with just and lowly ones shall it
  have its intercourse. Accept whatever happens to you as good, knowing that
  apart from God nothing comes to pass.

There are heaps more things described as sinful and abomination in the Bible
which I have not mentioned.

8. If the world is encouraging you, you're probably in falsehood or taking the wide
road

  John 7:7 - The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify
  about it that its works are evil. (ESV)

  John 15:18-19 - If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it
  hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own;
  but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world,
  therefore the world hates you.

  I John 3:13 - Do not be surprised, brothers, that the world hates you.

Paul and the other faithful Apostles were exhibited as last of all, like men
sentenced to death for following Jesus:

  I Corinthians 4:6-16 - I have applied all these things to myself and
  Apollos for your benefit, brothers, that you may learn by us not to go
  beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one
  against another. For who sees anything different in you? What do you have
  that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if
  you did not receive it? Already you have all you want! Already you have
  become rich! Without us you have become kings! And would that you did
  reign, so that we might share the rule with you! For I think that God has
  exhibited us apostles as last of all, like men sentenced to death, because
  we have become a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men. We are
  fools for Christ's sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you
  are strong. You are held in honor, but we in disrepute. To the present hour
  we hunger and thirst, we are poorly dressed and buffeted and homeless, and
  we labor, working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless; when
  persecuted, we endure; when slandered, we entreat. We have become, and are
  still, like the scum of the world, the refuse of all things. I do not write
  these things to make you ashamed, but to admonish you as my beloved
  children. For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have
  many fathers. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel.
  I urge you, then, be imitators of me. (ESV)

9. The times of ignorance are past

Now God commands all people everywhere to repent:

  Acts 17:30-31 - The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands
  all people everywhere to repent, because he has fixed a day on which he
  will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed; and
  of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. (ESV)

  Acts 14:15-17 - Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men, of
  like nature with you, and we bring you good news, that you should turn from
  these vain things to a living God, who made the heaven and the earth and
  the sea and all that is in them. In past generations he allowed all the
  nations to walk in their own ways. Yet he did not leave himself without
  witness, for he did good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful
  seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. (ESV)

10. Common grace

God's common grace extends to even the evil:

  Matthew 5:44-45 - But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those
  who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven.
  For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on
  the just and on the unjust. (ESV)

Jesus is so generous that He saves even unthankful people, but we should
definitely love Jesus as a response. This story should be taken to see how
Good God is, but also taken as a warning against unthankfulness:

  Luke 17:11-19 - On the way to Jerusalem he was passing along between
  Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers,
  who stood at a distance and lifted up their voices, saying, Jesus, Master,
  have mercy on us. When he saw them he said to them, Go and show yourselves
  to the priests. And as they went they were cleansed. Then one of them, when
  he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice; and
  he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a
  Samaritan. Then Jesus answered, Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine?
  Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner?
  And he said to him, Rise and go your way; your faith has made you well.
  (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Mercies {New Every Morning} {Live from Trafalgar Square} - Matt
Redman

We are meant to exercise common grace to other people.

  Luke 6:35-36 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting
  nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of
  the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful,
  even as your Father is merciful. (ESV)

When we pray, we should desire to do God's will, as Jesus has prayed for us
to remain here to do His will:

  Matthew 6:9-12 - Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be
  your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we
  also have forgiven our debtors. (ESV)

Jesus has us remaining here to be sanctified in the Truth:

  John 17:15-17 - I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that
  you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am
  not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth.

Jesus wants us to do God's will, and love Him and be obedient to Him:

  John 8:41-44 - You are doing what your father did. They said to him, We
  were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father—even God. Jesus said
  to them, If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God
  and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me. Why do you not
  understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. You
  are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires.
  He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to do with the truth,
  because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own
  character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.

God has common grace for evildoers, and for the unjust, and Jesus wants us to
help work that common grace into the lives of other people:

  Matthew 5:44-45 - But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those
  who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven.
  For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on
  the just and on the unjust. (ESV)

See, our actions reflect who our Father is:

  Luke 6:35-36 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting
  nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of
  the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful,
  even as your Father is merciful. (ESV)

Talk
youtube.com: Christianity is God saves us & we respond to obey, not the other
way

11. Justification - declared 'not guilty', if in Christ Jesus

Jesus is God revealed in the flesh.

I think, that means that if a person loves (is obedient to) and has faith in
Him, they are most likely saved.

11.1. We must live by faith - live by obedience to God!

Jesus will manifest to those who keep His commandments:

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

Jesus comes to dwell in our hearts through faith, His spirit in our inner
being, as we are rooted and grounded in love:

  Ephesians 3:14-21 - For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from
  whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that according to the
  riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through
  his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts
  through faith—that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have
  strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length
  and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses
  knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now to him
  who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think,
  according to the power at work within us, to him be glory in the church and
  in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. (ESV)

The followers of Paul the Apostle live by (walk by) faith; those are the
righteous ones. It's a lifestyle:

  Galatians 3:11 - Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by
  the law, for The righteous shall live by faith. (ESV)

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of faith:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

  Habakkuk 2:4 - Behold, his soul is puffed up; it is not upright within him,
  but the righteous shall live by his faith. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:7 - for we walk by faith, not by sight. (ESV)

  Galatians 2:20 - I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who
  live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I
  live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
  (ESV)

Being firm in our faith, we can resist:

  I Peter 5:8-9 - Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil
  prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him,
  firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being
  experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. (ESV)

11.2. We must be found in Jesus

  Ephesians 2:18 - For through him we both have access in one Spirit to the
  Father. (ESV)

  Ephesians 1:1 - Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, To the
  saints who are in Ephesus, and are faithful in Christ Jesus: (ESV)

  Romans 8:1-2 - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in
  Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ
  Jesus from the law of sin and death. (ESV)

  Colossians 1:14 - in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.
  (ESV)

  Colossians 2:10 - and you have been filled in him, who is the head of all
  rule and authority. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 1:21 - And it is God who establishes us with you in Christ,
  and has anointed us, (ESV)

  Colossians 3:3 - For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in
  God. (ESV)

11.3. The ones who are in Jesus have been called out of darkness and into His
light

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation,
  a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of
  him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:38 - but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks
  back, my soul has no pleasure in him. (ESV)

  Romans 1:17 - For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for
  faith, as it is written, The righteous shall live by faith. (ESV)

11.4. Sanctification (turning from sin and being cleaned) is a marker of those
who are in Jesus

  I Corinthians 6:11 - And such were some of you. But you were washed, you
  were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ
  and by the Spirit of our God. (ESV)

We should also ask God to sanctify us, and we should will to be sanctified.
God wants us to be sanctified, and to depart from impurity:

  I John 5:14-15 - And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that
  if we ask anything according to his will he hears us. And if we know that
  he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we
  have asked of him. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 4:3-8 - For this is the will of God, your sanctification:
  that you abstain from sexual immorality; that each one of you know how to
  control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust like
  the Gentiles who do not know God; that no one transgress and wrong his
  brother in this matter, because the Lord is an avenger in all these things,
  as we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you. For God has not called
  us for impurity, but in holiness. Therefore whoever disregards this,
  disregards not man but God, who gives his Holy Spirit to you. (ESV)

11.5. We are justified by faith in God who delivered up for our trespasses and
raised Jesus Christ from the dead for our justification

  Galatians 5:4 - You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by
  the law; you have fallen away from grace. (ESV)

  Galatians 2:16 - yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the
  law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ
  Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the
  law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:24 - So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in
  order that we might be justified by faith. (ESV)

We have to have faith which is characteristic of Abraham's faith, but with
regards to following the Lord Jesus.

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of faith:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

Our justification comes from having trusting faith in God our Father, who has
raised from the dead Jesus Christ our Lord (our brother who we obey); the
Jesus Christ who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised from the dead
for our justification.

Obeying God is obeying Jesus. Having faith in God is having faith in Jesus.

He was raised for our justification; now in order to be justified by faith,
we simply need to put our faith in Him - we need to trusting Jesus Christ.

Trusting in Jesus should result in following Him, believing Jesus' words,
walking as he walked, entrusting ourselves to Father God who judges
righteously.

We have to die to our old self and live for Christ, simply abiding in Him.

  II Corinthians 5:14-15 - For the love of Christ controls us, because we
  have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died;
  and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for
  themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised.

If we walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before
he was circumcised, and are doing the will of God, then we would love Jesus
and Jesus helps us:

  John 8:39-40 - They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to
  them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what Abraham did,
  but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard
  from God. This is not what Abraham did. (ESV)

  Hebrews 2:16-18 - For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps
  the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in
  every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest
  in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For
  because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who
  are being tempted. (ESV)

  Mark 3:35 - Whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and
  mother. (ESV)

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

If we walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before
he was circumcised, but having faith in God by obeying Jesus Christ who was
raised for our justification then we have Jesus Christ's righteousness; we
have the righteeousness of faith in God.

  Romans 4:22-23 - That is why his faith was counted to him as righteousness.
  But the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone,
  (ESV)

And the promise will be ours also, because Jesus is our Lord, and we belong
to Him.

  Romans 4:24-25 - but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in
  him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our
  trespasses and raised for our justification. (ESV)

Abraham is the the father of all who believe without being circumcised, and
the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also
walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
circumcised. The circumcised are the ones who keep the precepts of the law by
faith - so the law must be combined with the faith of Abraham:

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

The true circumcised are the ones who obey the precepts of the law, and if
they walk in the footsteps of faith which Abraham had before he was
circumcised, then that is a valid mode of justification:

  Romans 2:25-29 - For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law,
  but if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So, if
  a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his
  uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically
  uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code
  and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one
  outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one
  inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by
  the letter. His praise is not from man but from God. (ESV)

So if we have the faith that Abraham had in his walk before circumcision,
such as when he refused the gifts from the king of Sodom, or when he put
Isaac on the Altar, but in regards to following Jesus. We must give up our
old life to live for Christ:

  Genesis 14:21-23 - And the king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the
  persons, but take the goods for yourself. But Abram said to the king of
  Sodom, I have lifted my hand to the LORD, God Most High, Possessor of
  heaven and earth, that I would not take a thread or a sandal strap or
  anything that is yours, lest you should say, I have made Abram rich. (ESV)

So what Jesus is saying is quite similar:

  Luke 9:23-24 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him
  deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would
  save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will
  save it. (ESV)

Now it makes sense to me how Zacchaeus received slavation:

  Luke 19:8-9 - And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the
  half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of
  anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has
  come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham. (ESV)

youtube.com: The Golden Stitches of Sovereignty: What Holds Our Gospel
Together @time: 39 min 22 sec
So the first self, Jesus says, is going to be lost forever. Whoever would
save his life will lose it. And the second self is gonna live forever.
Whoever loses his life for me, for me, because you fall in love with me,
you've seen me, you love me, you're satisfied with me, your treasuring me.
I'm everything to you. You live forever. You're on the road. And you stay on
it through death and resurrection and we live together, forever.

11.6. Justified by our words

  Matthew 12:37 - for by your words you will be justified, and by your words
  you will be condemned. (ESV)

11.7. Justified by grace

  Titus 3:7 - so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs
  according to the hope of eternal life. (ESV)

youtube.com: God Is No Longer Against Us

  Romans 5:2 - Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this
  grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. (ESV)

Christ keeps us standing. His grace is actively making us stand:

  Romans 14:4 - Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is
  before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for
  the Lord is able to make him stand. (ESV)

11.7.1. Justified by faith following Jesus

We have peace with God:

  Romans 5:1 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

 1. When James mentions "justification by works", he actually is referring to
justification by obedient faith (obedient faith is still faith)

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of
faith:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone
  as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of
  sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to
  righteousness? (ESV)

  James 2:25 - And in the same way was not also Rahab the prostitute
  justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out
  by another way? (ESV)

Hebrews 11:31 links obedience to works in James 2:25:

  Hebrews 11:31 - By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those
  who were disobedient, because she had given a friendly welcome to the
  spies. (ESV)

11.7.2. Justified by the blood of Jesus, received through faith in Jesus Christ
as Lord

The same Apostle Paul wrote these:

  Romans 5:1-2 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also
  obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice
  in hope of the glory of God.

  Romans 5:6-9 - For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died
  for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person—though
  perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die— but God shows his
  love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since,
  therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be
  saved by him from the wrath of God.

  Romans 5:9 - Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood,
  much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Lord, I Lift Your Name On High - Petra {Backtrack no guitar?}

The way that Jesus went is the way that we go. The new and living way is the
Jesus way:

• self denial
• Matthew 16:24 - Then Jesus told his disciples, If anyone would come
after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.
(ESV)
• obedience
• sacrifice
• death

We are sanctified by the Father in the way that Jesus was made perfect. We
are made perfect the same way He was made perfect, by the sufferings that
come through obedience to God's will.

  Hebrews 2:10-11 - For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all
  things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of
  their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those
  who are sanctified all have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to
  call them brothers, (ESV)

  Matthew 26:39-42 - And going a little farther he fell on his face and
  prayed, saying, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me;
  nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. And he came to the disciples
  and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, So, could you not watch with
  me one hour? Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The
  spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Again, for the second
  time, he went away and prayed, My Father, if this cannot pass unless I
  drink it, your will be done. (ESV)

Thee same way Jesus went is the Way, the new and living way, the Jesus way:

  Hebrews 5:8-9 - Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he
  suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation
  to all who obey him, (ESV)

Receiving this is a mixture of belief and obedience towards Jesus. Faith is a
mixture of belief and obedience.

  I Peter 2:21 - For to this you have been called, because Christ also
  suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his
  steps. (ESV)

Jesus is the Way, the Truth and the Life - the Only Way to the Father. Amen.

Jesus is the bread of Life.

We focus on Jesus, keep His words, believe His words, pratice His
commandments, imitate Him, etc. reject falsehood, accept the Truth and the
Truth is in Jesus. We do this and Jesus saves us.

youtube.com: The Way, the Truth, & the Life: Knowing Christ - The I AM
Sayings of Jesus with R.C. Sproul
There is such a unity here in the Godhead between the Father and the Son that
if you see the Son, you see the Father. If you know the Son, you know the
Father. And conversely, if you know the Father, you know the Son. This was
the point of dispute that Jesus had with the Pharisees who claimed to be
disciples of God the Father but who rejected Jesus. And He said to them,
look, if you know the Father, you have to believe in the Son, because the
Father bears witness to Me. And so the way to the Father is through the Son.
The way to see the Father is to see the Son. The way to get to the Father is
to go through the Son.

  John 14:1-7 - Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also
  in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have
  told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a
  place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I
  am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said
  to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?
  Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes
  to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known
  my Father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him. (ESV)

  John 8:48-59 - The Jews answered him, Are we not right in saying that you
  are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon,
  but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory;
  there is One who seeks it, and he is the judge. Truly, truly, I say to you,
  if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. The Jews said to him, Now
  we know that you have a demon! Abraham died, as did the prophets, yet you
  say, If anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. Are you greater
  than our father Abraham, who died? And the prophets died! Who do you make
  yourself out to be? Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is
  nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say, He is our God.
  But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know
  him, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and I keep his word.
  Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was
  glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have
  you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before
  Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid
  himself and went out of the temple. (ESV)

Obedience to God is an act of faith: (Hebrews 11). On the flip side,
disobedience flows from unbelief/faithlessness:

  I Timothy 1:13 - though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and
  insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in
  unbelief, (ESV)

Acting in accordance with faithlessness is sinful behaviour:

  I Timothy 1:13 - even though I was formerly a blasphemer and a persecutor
  and a violent aggressor. Yet I was shown mercy because I acted (G4160
  poieo) ignorantly (G50 agnoeo) in unbelief (G570 apaistia i.e.
  faithlessness, disobedience); (NASB)

|  :  570  apaistia  ap-is-tee'-ah
| 
|   from 571; faithlessness, i.e. (negatively) disbelief (lack of
|   Christian faith), or (positively) unfaithfulness
|   (disobedience):--unbelief.
|   see GREEK for 571

bibletools.org - apaistia
faithlessness

The wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience:

  Ephesians 5:5-7 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is
  sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has
  no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you
  with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon
  the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not associate with them;

That means that justifying faith involves obeying Jesus:

  Romans 5:8-11 - but God shows his love for us in that while we were still
  sinners, Christ died for us. Since, therefore, we have now been justified
  by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For
  if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son,
  much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. More
  than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through
  whom we have now received reconciliation.

We trust in His name. If you trust in Jesus you are not judged:

  John 3:18 - He who believes (G4100 pisteuo) in Him is not judged; he who
  does not believe (G4100 pisteuo) has been judged (G2919 krino) already
  (G2235 ede), because he has not believed (G4100 pisteuo) in the name of the
  only begotten Son of God. (NASB)

The free gift of justification is received through faith in God.

And I believe we need a trusting (characteristically believing and obedient)
heart towards Jesus to receive this justification.

  John 12:48 - The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
  judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. (ESV)

Trust God's Word given through Jesus:

  John 5:24-26 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and
  believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come (2064.
  erchomai) into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Truly, truly, I
  say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the
  voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For as the Father
  has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in
  himself.􀀧􁱾

It's not about putting our hope on compliance to the Mosaic law to save us
but it's about obeying Jesus / loving Jesus / trusting Jesus, and the
compliance to God's law will come naturally while obeying Jesus.

The justifying work is finished - Jesus finished it, now we follow Him
through the same way he went, by trusting in Him to save us, believing Him,
obeying Him and remaining faithful to Him. We want to be teachable by Him and
to affirm the words He has spoken. Our behaviour should change to reflect our
belief in what Jesus has spoken. We are forgiven to do the will of God.

Now we need faith to receive it and I believe that faith necessitates love
for Jesus, which includes obedience to Jesus, and it's the heart that matters
most, because all the work may be burned up but we are still saved, because
it's not the work that saves, it's faith, but I believe that faith
necessitates love/obedience to Jesus, as one of His sheep.

  Romans 3:21-25 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. (ESV)

11.7.3. Believing the Word of Truth - sealed with the promised Holy Spirit

We had faith in him. We had a faithful, obedient heart, and were sealed with
the promised Holy Spirit:

  Ephesians 1:13-14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 12:13 - For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one
  body—Jews or Greeks, slaves or free—and all were made to drink of one
  Spirit. (ESV)

Paul 'hears of their faith' (their working faith; faith works; otherwise,
what is to hear about) and their love toward the saints. (ESV)

Faith in the Lord Jesus means obedience:

  Ephesians 1:15-16 - For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in
  the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give
  thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers, (ESV)

Knowledge of Him results in the heart being enlightened:

  Ephesians 1:17-20 - that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of
  glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge
  of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what
  is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious
  inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his
  power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might
  that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at
  his right hand in the heavenly places, (ESV)

Names have power. Jesus' name is above every other name:

  Ephesians 1:21 - far above all rule and authority and power and dominion,
  and above every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the
  one to come. (ESV)

  Acts 4:12 - And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other
  name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:9 - Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him
  the name that is above every name, (ESV)

11.8. Faith, Law, Works

We must live by and within the law of God:

  Proverbs 28:9 - If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his
  prayer is an abomination. (ESV)

Christians are under the law of Christ, which is within the law of God:

  I Corinthians 9:21 - To those outside the law I became as one outside the
  law (not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ) that I
  might win those outside the law.

A result of abiding by the law of God and our accountability to God for the
law of Christ is that people will love God and one another. On the other
hand, as a result of obeying impurity and obeying lawlessness, and as a
result of not abiding by the law of God, people's love grows cold, and the
willful sinning of obeying impurity and lawlessness leads to an eventual
death:

  Matthew 24:12 - And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many
  will grow cold. (ESV)

Even though we are under grace, we must still obey God for the hope of
righteousness, and we must not obey impurity, and we must not obey
lawlessness. We must obey God, and certainly we must turn from our sin and
practice righteousness and we rely on God to help us do that:

  Romans 6:14-19 - For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not
  under law but under grace? By no means! Do you not know that if you present
  yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you
  obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to
  righteousness? But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. (ESV)

  I Peter 5:10 - And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all
  grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself
  restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. (ESV)

By obedience to God we work out our salvation:

  Galatians 5:5 - For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait
  for the hope of righteousness. (ESV)

11.8.1. Love is defined by Jesus

Sermon
The New Commandment of Christ: 'Love One Another As I Have Loved You' |
Desiring God

We must love (not just any way you believe it's defined) but in the same way
that Jesus loved us:

  John 13:34 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. (ESV)

  I John 4:10-11 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he
  loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if
  God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. (ESV)

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

youtube.com: Hope and the Fruit of Love @time: 2 min 0 sec

Since you have in obedience to the truth purified your souls for a sincere
love of the brethren - there's there's the pillar - therefore, fervently love
one another.

So, the first pillar is Soul purifying obedience to the truth. Do we all see
that? Since you have purified your souls by obedience to the truth, love.

If you do this you can love. If you don't do this, love falls. If you do
this, love stands. So there's pillar number one.

Since there is a soul purifying obedience to the truth, you can love each
other.

  Ephesians 5:25-27 - Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church
  and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed
  her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the
  church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing,
  that she might be holy and without blemish.

11.8.2. Christians are not under the Mosaic law because we are under grace as
we are under Christ's law, but we don't despise the Torah, nor annul it, nor
teach others to annul it

I enjoyed this video, but I still am of the opinion that following the full
Mosaic law is not necessary, (but not prohibited, so long as it is pursued by
faith and submits to God's righteousness):

Debate
youtube.com: Public Debate - Should Christians Keep The Law?

Relying on the 'works of the law' for one's righteousness puts a person under
a curse:

  Galatians 3:10 - For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse;
  for it is written, Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things
  written in the Book of the Law, and do them.

The whole world is accountable to God over the law of God:

  Romans 3:19-20 - Now we know that whatever the law says it speaks to those
  who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole
  world may be held accountable to God. For by works of the law no human
  being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge
  of sin. (ESV)

The law is still used in judgement, but the one who has faith in Jesus is not
condemned.

The law is good and just and Jesus both obeyed it flawlessly, but He also
fulfilled it like a prophesy:

  Acts 3:18 - But what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets, that
  his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled. (ESV)

  John 15:25 - But the word that is written in their Law must be fulfilled:
  They hated me without a cause. (ESV)

  John 18:9 - This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken: Of those whom
  you gave me I have lost not one. (ESV)

  Matthew 26:56 - But all this has taken place that the Scriptures of the
  prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples left him and fled.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 5:17 - Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the
  Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. (ESV)

  John 18:32 - This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show by
  what kind of death he was going to die. (ESV)

  John 19:24 - so they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots
  for it to see whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the Scripture which
  says, They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast
  lots. So the soldiers did these things, (ESV)

  John 19:28 - After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to
  fulfill the Scripture), I thirst. (ESV)

It was inevitable. The Scripture had to be fulfilled:

  Acts 1:16 - Brothers, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy
  Spirit spoke beforehand by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became
  a guide to those who arrested Jesus. (ESV)

11.8.3. Faith in Jesus Christ doesn't exclude obedience. Knowing Jesus is more
than knowing about Jesus. About the Galatian error for those who try to use
this passage in order to avoid obeying Jesus

  Job 22:24-26 - if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the
  stones of the torrent bed, then the Almighty will be your gold and your
  precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and
  lift up your face to God. (ESV)

God wants us to love Him, treasure Him (25. agapaó), value Him with all our
heart, and love and value and treasure one another (25. agapaó) as ourselves
youtube.com: What Is It Like to Enjoy God? @time: 35 min 16 sec

Yeah, I agree with John Piper, for the most part. Loving God is not actually
first working for God. But it is to truly desire God, and treasure Him (25.
agapaó), and treasure His word, and treasure His commandments, to give Him
due praise, and to honour God, and give Him the glory, to love Him in the
affectionate and treasuring sense is what God wants of us, and Jesus says
that if we love Him then we will keep His commandments. Where John Piper says
'affectionate love comes before obedience', I prefer to say that 'treasuring
God includes a heart of obedience, trust, belief, desiring God, and
affectionate love' and I also think that obedience (being in the will of God)
may produce work for God but doesn't strictly mean work. We want to keep His
commandments so I believe we should treasure God with all our heart. God also
commands us to love one another as ourselves, so we should also love and
value other people with that same treasuring love, but God wants Him to be
our number one treasure, and I think we have to make God our number one love.

As I understand it, I John 5:2-3 isn't saying that God's commandments are
universally unburdensome to all people. It's saying that when we love God
then keeping His commandments is unburdensome. If we're struggling with
keeping the commandments of God and struggling with sin then we should make
Him our number one love heart's desire and treasure and seek Him first with
all our heart and we will be able to find His commandments unburdensome! It's
true.

I feel like I could still say, "Loving God is obedience to God," but I would
rather rephrase it as, "God in His love gifted me to be able to love Him back
and live. I can see in retrospect He had been working in my life and it's
awesome and magnificent and I just want to cherish and obey God now, and God
made the way for me to do that!"

  I John 5:2-3 - By this we know that we love the children of God, when we
  love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we
  keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.

Even the Apostle Paul explains that our freedom is for serving one another:

  Galatians 5:13 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use
  your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one
  another. (ESV)

Our freedom is so that we might live to God:

  Galatians 2:19 - For through the law I died to the law, so that I might
  live to God. (ESV)

God is our life. We must love, obey, and hold fast to Him. Faith is not
without obedience, but we are to obey Jesus Christ and to believe in Jesus is
to have begun to obey Him:

  Deuteronomy 30:20 - loving the LORD your God, obeying his voice and holding
  fast to him, for he is your life and length of days, that you may dwell in
  the land that the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to
  Jacob, to give them. (ESV)

God is our life because Christ is our life. Our life is hidden with Christ in
God:

  Colossians 3:1-4 - If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the
  things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.
  Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth.
  For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ
  who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.
  (ESV)

  I John 5:12 - Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son
  of God does not have life. (ESV)

youtube.com: Hope and the Fruit of Love @time: 2 min 0 sec

Since you have in obedience to the truth purified your souls for a sincere
love of the brethren - there's there's the pillar - therefore, fervently love
one another.

So, the first pillar is Soul purifying obedience to the truth. Do we all see
that? Since you have purified your souls by obedience to the truth, love.

If you do this you can love. If you don't do this, love falls. If you do
this, love stands. So there's pillar number one.

Since there is a soul purifying obedience to the truth, you can love each
other.

To get to know Jesus, we must obey His commandments:

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

Christ Jesus has set us free to serve God, living for Him. Obeying Christ
Jesus, we are found in Him:

  John 13:34 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. (ESV)

In Christ Jesus seek to follow the pattern of His life to get to know Him,
and He gave us commandments to follow to do that. Faith in Christ Jesus is
not just a belief in the head but faith is trusting Him, and trusting in Him
with all our heart, soul, mind and strength. Both our belief in Him and
obedience to Him flow from our trust in Him. Anyone who claims to have come
to know Jesus but does not do what Jesus says is a liar and they are not in
the truth:

  Galatians 2:1-5 - Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem
  with Barnabas, taking Titus along with me. I went up because of a
  revelation and set before them (though privately before those who seemed
  influential) the gospel that I proclaim among the Gentiles, in order to
  make sure I was not running or had not run in vain. But even Titus, who was
  with me, was not forced to be circumcised, though he was a Greek. Yet
  because of false brothers secretly brought in—who slipped in to spy out our
  freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, so that they might bring us into
  slavery— to them we did not yield in submission even for a moment, so that
  the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you. (ESV)

  Galatians 2:6-9 - And from those who seemed to be influential (what they
  were makes no difference to me; God shows no partiality)—those, I say, who
  seemed influential added nothing to me. On the contrary, when they saw that
  I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, just as Peter
  had been entrusted with the gospel to the circumcised (for he who worked
  through Peter for his apostolic ministry to the circumcised worked also
  through me for mine to the Gentiles), and when James and Cephas and John,
  who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given to me, they
  gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me, that we should go to
  the Gentiles and they to the circumcised. (ESV)

We must like, Paul, will to do the will of God:

  Galatians 2:10 - Only, they asked us to remember the poor, the very thing I
  was eager to do. (ESV)

  Galatians 2:11-15 - But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his
  face, because he stood condemned. For before certain men came from James,
  he was eating with the Gentiles; but when they came he drew back and
  separated himself, fearing the circumcision party. And the rest of the Jews
  acted hypocritically along with him, so that even Barnabas was led astray
  by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with
  the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before them all, If you, though a
  Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles
  to live like Jews? We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners;
  (ESV)

Yes, Jesus has set us free, but it's to serve God by serving Christ. We are
freed in order to love and serve God:

  Galatians 5:1 - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore,
  and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. (ESV)

We endeavour to be justified in Christ - in Christ means abiding in Christ -
through faith; trusting, believing, obedient faith:

  Galatians 2:16-19 - yet we know that a person is not justified by works of
  the law but through faith (G4102 pistis) in Jesus Christ, so we also have
  believed (G4100 pisteuo) in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith
  in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one
  will be justified. But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we
  too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly
  not! For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a
  transgressor. For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live
  to God. (ESV)

Trusting, believing, obedient faith is faith which trusts Jesus Christ and
obeys Jesus Christ's commandments. The word 'law' should not be anathema. It
it possible to be justified by obedience to Christ's commandments which
include Christ's law, because obedience to Jesus is a part of faith and is an
intrinsic quality of faith, as is belief.

Pisteuo means to trust. Trust in God, trust also in God's Son Jesus:

  Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts (G4100 pisteuo)
  him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, (ESV)

Paul lives by faith in Jesus Christ:

  Galatians 2:20 - I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who
  live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I
  live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
  (ESV)

The Apostle Paul lives by faith in Jesus Christ and that involves trust,
belief, obedience, and Paul makes a point about faith being becoming like
Jesus Christ, and seeking to be found in Christ Jesus. Obeying Jesus is not
contrary to faith in Jesus:

  Philippians 3:8-12 - Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the
  surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have
  suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I
  may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
  that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the
  righteousness from God that depends on faith — that I may know him and the
  power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him
  in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from
  the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect, but
  I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  (ESV)

  Galatians 2:21 - I do not nullify the grace of God, for if justification
  were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. (ESV)

11.8.4. Didache

The Didache's estimated range of dating is 50-120 A.D, according to
earlychristianwritings.com.

What I like about the Didache is that it upholds righteous living and
following God's Great commandments and precepts.

Didache: The Lord's Teaching Through the Twelve Apostles to the Nations

I think it's important to live righteously out of love for God and one's
neighbour, and out of faith.

That being said, I think God does justify through faith, and I believe faith
works. And working may indeed be called faith if the work is done in faith. I
also think God likely saves through works because it may be their way of
demonstrating faith to Jesus.

11.8.5. Our point of reference

We are sanctified by the Spirit and faith in the truth (taking God's words as
True and using them to combat lies):

  II Thessalonians 2:13 - But we should always give thanks (G2168
  eucharisteo) to God for you, brethren beloved by the Lord, because God has
  chosen you from the beginning (G746 arche) for salvation through
  sanctification by the Spirit and faith (G4102 pistis) in the truth (G225
  aletheia). (NASB)

• And the Spirit is the Truth
• And God's Word is Truth
• God's Words are Truth
• Jesus is the Truth
• We must have faith in the truth (i.e. believe and trust in the truth)

  Deuteronomy 13:4 - You shall walk after the Lord your God and fear him and
  keep his commandments and obey his voice, and you shall serve him and hold
  fast to him.

Think of Jesus here:

• keep His commandments
• obey His voice
• serve Him
• hold fast to Him

Christians must do this.

It's Jesus' words are forever true:

  Matthew 24:35 - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass
  away. (ESV)

We will be judged by Jesus' own words which God gave Him, unless we accept
Him, and accept His words:

  John 12:48 - The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
  judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.

I believe the following indicates the law exists pretty much forever - there
probably isn't an expiry date:

  Luke 16:17 - But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for
  one dot of the Law to become void.

  Psalms 119:160 - The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your
  righteous rules endures forever. (ESV)

  John 17:17-19 - Sanctify them in the truth; Your word is truth. As you sent
  me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I
  consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth. (ESV)

Those who are in the faith can't do anything against the truth.

I think the Apostle here understands that we must test ourselves to see if we
are in the faith, and encourage others to test themselves. But interestingly,
he says, "not that we may appear to have met the test", and "though we may
seem to have failed", as if it may appear and seem as though others have
failed, but that we should test ourselves.

Sermon
youtube.com: Lord, Savior, and Treasure: The Complex Beauty of Jesus Christ
@time: 2 min 44 sec

Though there may seem to be apparent paradoxes, and apparent contradictions
in the Scripture, I think they either resolve or we rest in God, not relying
on our own understanding. But I confidently affirm God is True, though I
don't understand everything, and I affirm that my spiritual eyesight is
getting cleaned up by the Spirit, through faith, and by the washing of the
word, and I have confidence that Jesus Christ is in me:

  II Corinthians 13:5-8 - Examine yourselves, to see whether you are in the
  faith. Test yourselves. Or do you not realize this about yourselves, that
  Jesus Christ is in you? —unless indeed you fail to meet the test! I hope
  you will find out that we have not failed the test. But we pray to God that
  you may not do wrong—not that we may appear to have met the test, but that
  you may do what is right, though we may seem to have failed. For we cannot
  do anything against the truth, but only for the truth.

Because truth is truth, it is imperishable. Our souls are purified as we obey
the Truth - obey the Word of God - obey Jesus. Our souls come out of darkness
and into imperishable truth. The good news is the delivered account of
everything Jesus said and did, and doesn't contradict. Jesus doesn't
contradict Himself, so we can trust the word delivered through Jesus and the
apostles. The most important parts have been recorded, and this is the good
news, the gospel:

  I Peter 1:23-25 - since you have been born again, not of perishable seed
  but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God; for All
  flesh is like grass and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass
  withers, and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever.
  And this word is the good news that was preached to you. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 15:51-58 - Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all
  sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an
  eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be
  raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must
  put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. When
  the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on
  immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: Death is
  swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your victory? O death, where is
  your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But
  thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
  Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding
  in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in
  vain. (ESV)

Stop sinning by faith in the truth - by faith in Jesus, and trusting
obedience in God's words:

  1 Thessalonians 4:3 - For this is the will of God, your sanctification:
  that you abstain from sexual immorality; (ESV)

  Mark 10:19 - You know the commandments: Do not murder, Do not commit
  adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor
  your father and mother. (ESV)

  1 John 3:4-9 - Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices
  lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away
  sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on
  sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.
  Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is
  righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of
  the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason
  the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born
  of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he
  cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. (ESV)

Jesus' words will not pass away:

  Matthew 24:35 - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass
  away. (ESV)

  John 6:68 - Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have
  the words of eternal life, (ESV)

  I Peter 1:23 - since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but
  of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God;

  I Peter 1:25 - but the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is
  the good news that was preached to you.

  Ephesians 1:13,14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

Adhering strictly to the Mosaic law is not needed to be justified by God if
we believe in and follow Jesus:

  Galatians 3:15-18 - To give a human example, brothers: even with a man-made
  covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. Now the
  promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say, And to
  offsprings, referring to many, but referring to one, And to your offspring,
  who is Christ. This is what I mean: the law, which came 430 years
  afterward, does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God, so as to
  make the promise void. For if the inheritance comes by the law, it no
  longer comes by promise; but God gave it to Abraham by a promise.

11.8.6. Purity of heart

The Mosaic law is not really in the same category as the 10 commandments, I
believe. The 10 commandments if obeyed in truth from the heart would result
in a clean heart, I think. So it serves to describe what a pure heart looks
like, and the laws we should always try to keep whether Gentile or Jew.

We obey the Truth. We obey Jesus Christ. We obey God. We believe and trust
God, even for His finished work on the cross:

  I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,

Even belief must be in the heart:

  Romans 10:10- For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with
  the mouth one confesses and is saved. (ESV)

11.8.7. We should align our hearts and minds to God's precepts, not submit to
worldly precepts which are fictions

Sermon
+ youtube.com: Unstained from the World: The Battle for Purity - Tim Conway
@time: 30 min 28 sec

  Colossians 2:20-23,3:1-6 - If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits
  of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit
  to regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch (referring to
  things that all perish as they are used)—according to human precepts and
  teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made
  religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value
  in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. If then you have been raised with
  Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the
  right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things
  that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ
  in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear
  with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. (ESV)

  James 1:27 - Religion that is pure and undefiled before God, the Father, is
  this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself
  unstained from the world. (ESV)

11.8.8. We must cleanse ourself of defilement if we want God to use us more,
and if we want to see with faith and hear God more clearly

  II Corinthians 7:1 - Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse
  ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to
  completion in the fear of God. (ESV)

youtube.com: Unstained from the World: The Battle for Purity - Tim Conway
@time: 46 min 30 sec
This is not a cleansing from guilt - that's not what this is. This is a
cleansing from the pollution of the world.

God's servants may remain 'shelved' because they're unfit for use.

  Daniel 12:10-12 :: Purify themselves, yea, make themselves white, yea,
  refined are many: and the wicked have done wickedly, and none of the wicked
  understand, and those acting wisely do understand; (YLT)

  II Timothy 2:20-23 - Now in a great house there are not only vessels of
  gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use, some for
  dishonorable. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is
  dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy,
  useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. So flee
  youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along
  with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. Have nothing to do with
  foolish, ignorant controversies; you know that they breed quarrels. (ESV)

This is a sanctifying cleansing. We are sanctified by obedience to the Truth,
faith in Christ, obedience to Christ, trust in Christ:

  John 15:3 - Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to
  you. (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:25-26 - Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church
  and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed
  her by the washing of water with the word, (ESV)

Since we await Jesus, we want to be found by Him without spot or blemish.
We're supposed to put a stop to sin, fall out of agape love with the world,
and be sanctified:

  II Peter 3:13-14 - But according to his promise we are waiting for new
  heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Therefore, beloved,
  since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without
  spot or blemish, and at peace. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 22:14 - Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that
  they may have the right to the tree of life and that they may enter the
  city by the gates. (ESV)

Our relationship with God is based on our purity, not just our forgiveness:

  II Corinthians 6:16-18 - What agreement has the temple of God with idols?
  For we are the temple of the living God; as God said, I will make my
  dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they
  shall be my people. Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate from
  them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome you,
  and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me,
  says the Lord Almighty. (ESV)

Though we are God's children, we should purify ourself as He is pure.
Everyone who has this hope acts on that hope:

  I John 3:2-4 - Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has
  not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him,
  because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him
  purifies himself as he is pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning
  also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. (ESV)

11.8.9. Impurity lies the heart

  Luke 11:41 - But give as alms those things that are within, and behold,
  everything is clean for you. (ESV)

  Matthew 15:19 - For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery,
  sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:28 - But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with
  lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart.

Yes, adultery includes looking at pornography, and fantasizing over it. Yes,
adultery includes looking at AI-generated pornography as well.

  Revelation of John 2:23 - and I will strike her children dead. And all the
  churches will know that I am he who searches mind and heart, and I will
  give to each of you as your works deserve.

Similarly, the heart can be trained in greed, always looking to make more
money from people. That's sinful thinking too:

  II Peter 2:14 - They have eyes full of adultery, insatiable for sin. They
  entice unsteady souls. They have hearts trained in greed. Accursed
  children!

  II Corinthians 5:11-12 - Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we
  persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I hope it is known
  also to your conscience. We are not commending ourselves to you again but
  giving you cause to boast about us, so that you may be able to answer those
  who boast about outward appearance and not about what is in the heart.

11.8.10. Purifying the heart and the soul

Having faith in Jesus and obeying God, we are given the Holy Spirit. As we
hold faith in Jesus, the Holy Spirit cleanses our hearts by faith. As we obey
Jesus, going against the resistance, our souls are being cleansed.

God (who knows the heart) gave the Holy Spirit to the Gentiles who had
trusted/believed the word of truth, just as he had given the Holy Spirit to
those Jews who had believed, and God cleansed their hearts by faith. The
Apostle Peter made a point that he (Peter) and the other Apostles were also
relying on the grace of God, believing that they (the Apostles) would be
saved, just as the Gentiles who believed would be saved:

  Acts 15:5-11 - But some believers who belonged to the party of the
  Pharisees rose up and said, It is necessary to circumcise them and to order
  them to keep the law of Moses. The apostles and the elders were gathered
  together to consider this matter. And after there had been much debate,
  Peter stood up and said to them, Brothers, you know that in the early days
  God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the
  word of the gospel and believe. And God, who knows the heart, bore witness
  to them, by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us, and he made
  no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.
  Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test by placing a yoke on
  the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to
  bear? But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord
  Jesus, just as they will. (ESV)

Also, Luke 11:13 says God gives the Holy Spirit to those who ask him. So I
think it's typical to believe God, believing the gospel, and to ask God for
His Holy Spirit, expecting that God will cleanse our heart through faith,
being prepared to continue obeying the truth for a sincere brotherly love:

  Luke 11:13 - If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your
  children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to
  those who ask him! (ESV)

The same Apostle Peter made a point here about how we obey the Truth for a
sincere brotherly love from a pure heart, purifying our souls. We believe and
obey the good news, the gospel:

  I Peter 1:22-25 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable,
  through the living and abiding word of God; for All flesh is like grass and
  all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, and the flower
  falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good
  news that was preached to you. (ESV)

• Step 1 and ongoing: Believe the gospel / good news / the word of the
Lord, cleansing our heart by faith.
• The heart is purified by faith - believing the gospel.
• Hold fast to the gospel.
• Step 2 and ongoing: Love one another earnestly from a pure heart, obeying
the Truth who is Jesus and the Truth which is the Word of God, even the
Scripture.
• The soul is purified by obeying the Truth for a sincere brotherly
love issuing from a pure heart.
• This obedience to the Truth is primarily continuing to obey Jesus
who is the Truth and our Lord and Master and may be done while
observing the Law (Torah) which is useful for correction and
training in righteousness, but we do not call the Law our Master. We
are primarily slaves to Jesus who is our Righteousness. We don't
teach against following the Law by faith but we follow Jesus first
and foremost and have freedom as we do this, and the law doesn't
condemn us as we are following Jesus.
• Also we continue holding fast to the gospel.

So you see that whoever hopes in Jesus (has faith in Jesus) purifies himself
as He is pure by obedience to the Truth. So this is really about turning away
from sin, even after having come to faith in Jesus:

  I John 3:2-7 - Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has
  not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him,
  because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him
  purifies himself as he is pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning
  also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared
  to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him
  keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known
  him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. (ESV)

If we have faith in Jesus then we obey Jesus' commandments when presented
with opportunities. We walk by faith, not sight. When other people discourage
you from following Jesus' commandments, but you choose to obey Jesus anyway,
this is overcoming the enemy by faith:

  II Corinthians 5:7 - for we walk by faith, not by sight. (ESV)

Do what Jesus says and receive eternal life - obey Jesus:

  Romans 6:13-23 - Do not present your members to sin as instruments for
  unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been
  brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for
  righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not
  under law but under grace? By no means! Do you not know that if you present
  yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you
  obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to
  righteousness? But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed*, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. When you
  were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. But what
  fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now
  ashamed? The end of those things is death. But now that you have been set
  free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to
  sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death,
  but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

11.8.11. Being a slave to righteousness is possible without adhering to the
Mosaic law, by being led by Jesus' Spirit

  1 Corinthians 1:30-31 - He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom
  God made our wisdom and our righteousness and sanctification and
  redemption. Therefore, as it is written, Let the one who boasts, boast in
  the Lord. (ESV)

God through Jesus is the source of our personal righteousness as we are found
in Him, and our righteousness comes through Him. That personal righteousness
doesn't belong to us alone, but it also belongs to Christ because it comes
from Christ:

  Philippians 1:9-11 - And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and
  more, with knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve what is
  excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, filled with
  the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory
  and praise of God.

We are set free from sin and become slaves of God (so we obey God!!) and the
obedience leads to sanctification, and leads to righteousness:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

 1. If a person is led by the Spirit then the Lord Jesus is in control of
their life, which means that person obeys Jesus' commandments:

Faith is the action word. We must be followers of Jesus Christ, not
putting ourselves back under the law of Moses to seek justification
through it.

Faith receives and continues to receive the supply of the Spirit and we
are led by the Spirit:

  Galatians 3:1-5 - O foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you? It was
  before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified.
  Let me ask you only this: Did you receive the Spirit by works of the
  law or by hearing with faith? Are you so foolish? Having begun by the
  Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you suffer so
  many things in vain—if indeed it was in vain? Does he who supplies the
  Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law,
  or by hearing with faith— (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: The Law Refutes Justification by Law: Galatians 3:6a??9,
Part 1

Faith receives and continues to receive the supply of the Spirit. So a
person needs to be having faith in Jesus to be led by the Spirit.

Sanctification is personal righteousness that is fruit that comes from
being in Jesus Christ, Him being our righteousness - we're grafted into
Jesus like branches on a tree and become healthier. We must and should
forsake sin and obey Jesus.

We must live in the spirit the way God does, not for human passions, but
for the will of God:

  I Peter 4:1-6 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in
  the flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time
  in the flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. The
  time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do,
  living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties,
  and lawless idolatry. With respect to this they are surprised when you
  do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you;
  but they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and
  the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are
  dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might
  live in the spirit the way God does. (ESV)

11.8.12. We must have attention to Jesus Christ our Lord

We are saved from our sins, and from our evil practices.

  Jeremiah 7:9-10 - Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely,
  make offerings to Baal, and go after other gods that you have not known,
  and then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my
  name, and say, We are delivered!—only to go on doing all these
  abominations? (ESV)

We are made a new man in Christ Jesus by the power of the Holy Spirit.

  Matthew 12:33 - Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the
  tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. (ESV)

  John 10:27 - My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
  (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Holiness Demanded - Charles Spurgeon Sermon

Sermon
youtube.com: Eternal Security - Charles Spurgeon Sermon

11.8.13. Make the tree good and the fruit good

We must simultaneously make the tree good (abide in Jesus) and make the fruit
good (be sanctified and glorify God and Jesus in our hearts, minds, bodies
and actions).

  Matthew 12:33-37 - Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make
  the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. You
  brood of vipers! How can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the
  abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. The good person out of his good
  treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure
  brings forth evil. I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give
  account for every careless word they speak, for by your words you will be
  justified, and by your words you will be condemned. (ESV)

As we make the tree good, we make the fruit good!

I still think the 10 commandments are special, and following them in truth is
repenting from sin.

  Mark 10:19 - You know the commandments: Do not murder, Do not commit
  adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor
  your father and mother. (ESV)

  Acts 15:28-29 - For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay
  on you no greater burden than these requirements: that you abstain from
  what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been
  strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these,
  you will do well. Farewell.

11.8.14. Judgement

I certainly affirm that Jesus will return to save those waiting for Him, and
I currently am waiting for His return:

  Hebrews 9:27-28 - And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and
  after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the
  sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save
  those who are eagerly waiting for him. (ESV)

Jesus went to the place of the dead so people who had died (those who Paul is
referring to here) may also be saved. Also, it seems that the rapture
doctrine was made known from a word from the Lord:

  I Thessalonians 4:14-17 - For since we believe that Jesus died and rose
  again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have
  fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we
  who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede
  those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven
  with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound
  of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who
  are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds
  to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. (ESV)

Ultimately, we are waiting for incorruptible bodies, and I totally believe in
rapture and ultimately a completely new heavens and earth (not just a
renewal, although I do believe God is still taking care of and reigning on
the earth), so I think that whatever Paul the Apostle is referring to here,
well I have my speculatinons, is something more imminent, and perhaps more to
do with God's kingdom work on the earth, but I still hold the eschatological
view that there is ultimately an entirely new heavens and earth without any
corruption:

  I Corinthians 7:29-31 - This is what I mean, brothers: the appointed time
  has grown very short. From now on, let those who have wives live as though
  they had none, and those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and
  those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing, and those who buy as
  though they had no goods, and those who deal with the world as though they
  had no dealings with it. For the present form of this world is passing
  away. (ESV)

Also, I do not affirm reincarnation, but I think the truth is that it is
appointed for man to die once, and after that, judgement, and the LORD
creates an entirely new heavens and a new earth. No recycling. No
reincarnation. I await the second coming of Christ. AMEN! Amen to the New
Covenant. Jesus Christ is my High Priest.

  Hebrews 9:27-28 - And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and
  after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the
  sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save
  those who are eagerly waiting for him. (ESV)

  Isaiah 65:17 - For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the
  former things shall not be remembered or come into mind.

  Luke 18:8 - I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily.
  Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?

Will anyone be trusting Jesus, trusting in Jesus, believing and obeying
Jesus, being found in the kingdom of God?

The kingdom of God is all about serving Christ, and having righteousness,
peace and joy in the Holy Spirit:

  Romans 14:17-22 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever
  thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us
  pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Do not, for the sake
  of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is
  wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to
  eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble.
  The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one
  who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. (ESV)

We must also love one another in the way Jesus has loved us. Jesus recognized
that Father God loved Him, and Jesus obediently loved us. We must also
recognise that we have been loved by God, and love one another:

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

God's law is still used in judgement, but the one who has faith in Jesus is
not condemned because they abide in Jesus, are Jesus' sheep, and are led by
the Spirit, obeying and following Jesus' voice:

• Whoever is actively believing/trusting/obeying Jesus is not judged.
• Whoever is disbelieving/distrusting/disobeying Jesus is judged even now.

John 3:18 Interlinear: he who is believing in him is not judged, but he who
is not believing hath been judged already, because he hath not believed in
the name of the only begotten Son of God.

  John 3:18 - He who believes (G4100 pisteuo) in Him is not judged; he who
  does not believe (G4100 pisteuo) has been judged (G2919 krino) already
  (G2235 ede), because he has not believed (G4100 pisteuo) in the name of the
  only begotten Son of God. (NASB)

Firstly, obedient children are children who hear the word of God, believe and
love God, and we should be holy in all our conduct if we call on the LORD God
who judges impartially according to each one's deeds:

  I Peter 1:14-19 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy. And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to
  each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your
  exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from
  your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but
  with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or
  spot. (ESV)

I'm quite convinced that the substitutionary atonement is there to help us
put a stop to sin, and live to righteousness and holiness:

  II Corinthians 5:21 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin,
  so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 3:1-5 - And to the angel of the church in Sardis write:
  The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I
  know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead.
  Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not
  found your works complete in the sight of my God. Remember, then, what you
  received and heard. Keep it, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will
  come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against
  you. Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled
  their garments, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy.
  The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will
  never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before
  my Father and before his angels. (ESV)

If people including free-grace Christians do not repent from sin, they may
still receive the wrath of God, but I'm not the judge here:

  Colossians 3:5-10 - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. In these you too
  once walked, when you were living in them. But now you must put them all
  away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do
  not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its
  practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge
  after the image of its creator.

|  :  2919  krino  kree'-no
| 
|   properly, to distinguish, i.e. decide (mentally or judicially); by
|   implication, to try, condemn, punish:--avenge, conclude, condemn,
|   damn, decree, determine, esteem, judge, go to (sue at the) law,
|   ordain, call in question, sentence to, think.

|  :  2235  ede  ay'-day
| 
|   apparently from 2228 (or possibly 2229) and 1211; even now:--already,
|   (even) now (already), by this time.
|   see GREEK for 2228
|   see GREEK for 2229
|   see GREEK for 1211

God's still rewarding those who do good and bringing wrath to those who do
evil:

  Acts 10:4 - And he stared at him in terror and said, What is it, Lord? And
  he said to him, Your prayers and your alms have ascended as a memorial
  before God. (ESV)

  Genesis 19:13 - For we are about to destroy this place, because the outcry
  against its people has become great before the LORD, and the LORD has sent
  us to destroy it. (ESV)

  Matthew 11:23 - And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will
  be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done
  in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. (ESV)

Do not be an enemy of the cross of Christ, submit to the righteousness of God
- we needed Jehovah God, Father of Jesus Christ, to pay for our sin - and we
must imitate Christ, passing forward Christ's love and forgiving as we have
been forgiven, and repenting from sin:

  John 3:19 - This is the judgment, that the Light has come into the world,
  and men loved the darkness rather than the Light, for their deeds were
  evil. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:17 - For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of
  God; and if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do
  not obey the gospel of God? (ESV)

  Matthew 12:36-37 - I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give
  account for every careless word they speak, for by your words you will be
  justified, and by your words you will be condemned.

When one speaks evil against a brother, they become a judge of the law.

  James 4:11 - Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one who
  speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against the law
  and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law
  but a judge. (ESV)

Repentance involves turning away from sin, and all believers are supposed to
turn away from sin which they themselves condemn:

  Romans 2:1-5 - Therefore you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who
  judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself, because
  you, the judge, practice the very same things. We know that the judgment of
  God rightly falls on those who do such things. Do you suppose, O man—you
  who judge those who do such things and yet do them yourself—that you will
  escape the judgment of God? Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness
  and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to
  lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and impenitent heart you
  are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous
  judgment will be revealed. (ESV)

Turn away from sin and be corrected by the Truth:

  Daniel 9:13 - As it is written in the Law of Moses, all this calamity has
  come upon us; yet we have not entreated the favor of the LORD our God,
  turning from our iniquities and gaining insight by your truth. (ESV)

We must stop doing evil:

  Romans 2:6-11 - He will render to each one according to his works: to those
  who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he
  will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey
  the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There
  will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the
  Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor and peace for everyone
  who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no
  partiality. (ESV)

Eternal judgement:

  Hebrews 6:2 - and of instruction about washings, the laying on of hands,
  the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment.

 1. Our Lord is the Son of Man, and we should be ready and on alert

  Matthew 24:42 - Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day
  your Lord is coming. (ESV)

  Matthew 24:44 - Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is
  coming at an hour you do not expect. (ESV)

  Matthew 25:13 - Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the
  hour. (ESV)

 2. I believe I was saved and born-again by seeking Jesus and calling on the
name of the Lord

  Acts 2:17-21 - And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I
  will pour out my Spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters
  shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men
  shall dream dreams; even on my male servants and female servants in
  those days I will pour out my Spirit, and they shall prophesy. And I
  will show wonders in the heavens above and signs on the earth below,
  blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke; the sun shall be turned to
  darkness and the moon to blood, before the day of the Lord comes, the
  great and magnificent day. And it shall come to pass that everyone who
  calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.

I prayed a sinners prayer in my own room, and I had begun trying to
repent from sin, but I was still stuck in it and I needed help.

And when we are born-again and given a new heart we should continue in
obedience.

 3. We should not rebel against the law - but we should obey the truth in
truth

  Matthew 23:2-7 - The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so
  practice and observe whatever they tell you—but not what they do. For
  they preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to
  bear, and lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not
  willing to move them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be
  seen by others. For they make their phylacteries broad and their
  fringes long, and they love the place of honor at feasts and the best
  seats in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces and being
  called rabbi by others. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: How Preachers Grow Graceless

We should not live a double-life. We should not deny in our private life
what we preach in public.

Serving Christ means doing the will of God from the heart, in truth,
seeking to please God who sees everything even done in private:

  Ephesians 6:5-8 - Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and
  trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ, not by the way of
  eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the
  will of God from the heart, rendering service with a good will as to
  the Lord and not to man, knowing that whatever good anyone does, this
  he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or free.
  (ESV)

I'm not a perfect person. I'm writing this document as I am learning, and
interpreting as I go. And I am trying to clean myself up in my own
private life.

12. Faith requires obedience

youtube.com: C S Lewis message 2024 - Faith in action God fights for you, but
you must also act @time: 13 min 33 sec

The Breastplate of Righteousness (according to C. S. Lewis)
Protects our hearts against the enemy's attacks. It is a reminder of the
righteousness we have through Christ, not because of anything we have done.
It is about living in obedience and integrity, knowing that we are clothed in
His righteousness.

Luke writes that Peter says the Holy Spirit goes to those who obey Jesus.

If the book of Acts is finished after Paul went to Galatia, then it is in
knowledge of the letter to the Galatians, where Paul says the promised Spirit
is received through faith.

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:14 - so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come
  to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through
  faith. (ESV)

Or since Paul's journey to Galatia happened after Peter said the Holy Spirit
is given to those who obey Jesus, and Paul writes that the promised Spirit is
received through faith, even in these two passages, it's doubly confirmed
that faith necessitates obedience.

  Acts 16:6 - And they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having
  been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.

Jesus says you must obey God to be part of His family:

  Luke 8:21 - But He answered and said to them, “My mother and My brothers
  are these who hear the word of God and do it.”

Jesus implies you must obey Him (Jesus) to be part of His family:

  John 7:16 - So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who
  sent me.

Love Jesus (being obedient to Him) and believe that He came from God:

  John 16:25-27- I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The
  hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but
  will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my
  name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf;
  for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have
  believed that I came from God.

Doing the will of God from the heart means obedience, and integrity and
seeking to please God:

  Ephesians 6:5-8 - Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and
  trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ, not by the way of
  eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the will
  of God from the heart, rendering service with a good will as to the Lord
  and not to man, knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will
  receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or free. (ESV)

12.1. The obedient children are the ones who are not conformed to the passions of
our former ignorance

  I Peter 1:14-16 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy.

12.2. The sons of disobedience are the ones who are conformed to sexual
immorality, impurity, or covetousness, etc.

  Ephesians 5:5-7 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is
  sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has
  no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you
  with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon
  the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not associate with them;

12.3. Get to know Jesus by following His commandments

  Matthew 7:21-27 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in
  your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in
  your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew you; depart from
  me, you workers of lawlessness. Everyone then who hears these words of mine
  and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And
  the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that
  house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And
  everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a
  foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the
  floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell,
  and great was the fall of it. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:10 - Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. (ESV)

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

You must obey Jesus:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in the Son has eternal life;
  whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God
  remains on him. (ESV)

We must obey God. We have faith in God who was delivered up for our
trespasses and raised for our justification, and having faith in God is
having faith in His Son which is believing in and obeying Jesus Christ:

  Romans 4:23-25 - But the words it was counted to him were not written for
  his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe
  (G4100 pisteuo) in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was
  delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. (ESV)

13. True religion

• Be a disciple and representative of Jesus
• Obedient to Jesus
• Being a servant to other people
• Sticking up for truth
• Be faithful to Jesus
• Be personally accountable to God and to Jesus
• Do not deny Jesus
• Have a pure heart
• Obey God, being accountable to God
• Have Jesus' heart
• Serving Jesus
• Endeavour to please God
• Be holy
• Be godly (behaviour in accordance with the knowledge of God)

God does not despise the righteous deeds of His children done by faith:

  Isaiah 64:5-6 - You meet him who joyfully works righteousness, those who
  remember you in your ways. Behold, you were angry, and we sinned; in our
  sins we have been a long time, and shall we be saved? We have all become
  like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted
  garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take
  us away. (ESV)

Given a good conscience with God by faith in Jesus, we then do good works in
love out of a forgiven heart:

  I Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart
  and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

Quote from John Piper
That misunderstanding of Isaiah 64:6 has caused many Christians to believe
that it is impossible for a Christian to please God. If their best works are
filthy rags, there's nothing they can do to please him - this is a profoundly
unbiblical notion through and through.

  Philippians 4:18 - I have received full payment, and more. I am well
  supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent, a fragrant
  offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. (ESV)

  Hebrews 13:16 - Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for
  such sacrifices are pleasing to God. (ESV)

Our works must be done in faith:

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

Quote from John Piper
Think what a horrible thing it would be to say that the fruit of the Holy
Spirit in the Christian Life is filthy rags. I can hardly stand to think
about it. They are not filthy rags.

  Galatians 1:10 - For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am
  I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not
  be a servant of Christ. (ESV)

youtube.com: Unstained from the World: The Battle for Purity - Tim Conway
@time: 57 min 19 sec
You have to do it. Those reflexive pronouns mean your responsibility. God
doesn't do it for you. You do it. The person sitting next to you, your spouse
doesn't do it for you, your friends don't do it. You need to be determined
,and deliberate and intentional, and this is a battle, and we are up against
these great strongholds of thought that the world and the god of this world
bombards us with. This is no easy thing.

  James 1:27 - Religion that is pure and undefiled before God, the Father, is
  this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself
  unstained from the world. (ESV)

  Matthew 15:8-9 - This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is
  far from me; in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the
  commandments of men. (ESV)

  1 Samuel 16:7 - But the LORD said to Samuel, Do not look on his appearance
  or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the LORD
  sees not as man sees: man looks on the outward appearance, but the LORD
  looks on the heart. (ESV)

I do actually consider theology to be quite important but we should not be
whitewashed tombs.

I think the person's lifestyle should be 'pure and undefiled religion' as
James defines it.

  1 Peter 3:16 - a conscience having good so that in this they might speak
  against you they shall be ashamed those reviling your - good in Christ
  manner of life (391. anastrophé) (Interlinear)

I should probably actually do my own Bible study though because there's a lot
of false religion out there. Rather than fill my mind with other people's
doctrines and religion, we should obey God, knowing God knows.

Also endeavor to also do lots of service as that is what Jesus' Kingdom is
all about.

14. Repentance from sin

Repentance leads to the knowledge of the truth, and ceasing to do the devil's
will:

  II Timothy 2:24-26 - And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but
  kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his
  opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to
  a knowledge of the truth, and they may escape from the snare of the devil,
  after being captured by him to do his will. (ESV)

We must cease to do the devil's will:

  Hebrews 10:26-31 - For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the
  knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a
  fearful expectation of judgment, and a fury of fire that will consume the
  adversaries. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy
  on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment, do
  you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God, and
  has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has
  outraged the Spirit of grace? For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine;
  I will repay. And again, The Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful
  thing to fall into the hands of the living God. (ESV)

Before 2 April 2022 when I was born-again and a new creation, I was
especially stuck in sin - all sorts of things: pornography, pride, like the
prodigal son, but I was also quite oppressed. I hated feeling like I was in a
stranglehold of lies where I wasn't able to act on anything I believed was
true, and in poverty, and so I continued in sin. Some time in 2021, I had
begun putting my trust in God to work, and trying to keep God's commandments.
And on 2 April 2022, I was born-again of the Spirit. After that, things had
become 'tangibly' spiritual and I was given 'knowledge' that God exists and I
believed (and still do) that Jesus is God, so that means ever since then I
then had a strong belief that Jesus is with me and Jesus granted me to keep
on holding faith in Him without the full knowledge, which is really cool. So
now I feel even more urgency with regards to repentance from sin and a desire
to be holy. I'm a new creation, so I'm not going back to the way things were.
Thank You Jesus.

  I Thessalonians 5:20-21 - Do not despise prophecies, but test everything;
  hold fast what is good. (ESV)

14.1. Parable of the prodigal son - God's joy over a sinner that repents from sin

|  prodigal
|      Wasteful.
| 
|      Spending money or using resources freely
|      and recklessly; wastefully extravagant.
|      "prodigal habits die hard"
| 
|      A person who spends money in a recklessly
|      extravagant way.
|       "he hated rich prodigals who lived
|       useless, imprudent lives"

The story of the prodigal son is about a person coming to repentance, and
there is great joy over it. It's not saying that following God's commandments
are wrong. It's not even saying that 'rulekeeping' is wrong. It does say that
sin leads to destruction. It also says that God and the angels are overjoyed
when people repent from sin and turn back to Him, and that God forgives and
welcomes us back when we do this.

  Luke 15:7 - Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one
  sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no
  repentance.

  Luke 15:10 - Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God
  over one sinner who repents.

  Luke 15:24 - For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and
  is found. And they began to celebrate.

The father was always happy with the obedient son, but he was simply full of
joy that his wayward son had returned:

  Luke 15:31-32 - And he said to him, Son, you are always with me, and all
  that is mine is yours. It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this
  your brother was dead, and is alive; he was lost, and is found.

Yes, we must feel sorry for our sin:

  Luke 18:13 - But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift
  up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me,
  a sinner! (ESV)

We must turn from our wicked ways:

  2 Chronicles 7:14 - if my people who are called by my name humble
  themselves, and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then
  I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land.
  (ESV)

Yes, we must turn from our wicked ways to obey God - absolutely!:

  Romans 6:16-18 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone
  as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But
  thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient
  from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,
  and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.
  (ESV)

Assuming you are following Jesus, then when we confess our sin, God is
faithful and just to forgive us our sins. I've heard people say we only need
to confess our sin, but we also need to be following Jesus / walking in the
light. Repentance is still totally about changing our ways from wickedness to
obedience:

  I John 1:7-9 - But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
  fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
  from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth
  is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
  our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. (ESV)

God wants us to know Him and obey Him and to do good as He has commanded:

  Hosea 6:5-8 - Therefore I have hewn them by the prophets; I have slain them
  by the words of my mouth, and my judgment goes forth as the light. For I
  desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than
  burnt offerings. But like Adam they transgressed the covenant; there they
  dealt faithlessly with me. Gilead is a city of evildoers, tracked with
  blood. (ESV)

15. Obtain a faith of equal standing with the Apostles by the righteousness of our
God and Savior Jesus Christ

  II Peter 1:1 - Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To
  those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the
  righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:

We obtain a strong faith by the righteousness of Jesus Christ.

This requires obedience to Jesus.

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness?

Faith:

• Belief and Obedience => true knowledge => fruit
• Belief and obedience leads to true knowledge, and after true
knowledge, fruit

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

Also, the Old Testament speaks a lot about how to walk in righteousness:

  II Timothy 3:16 All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for
  teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,

This is why it's a good idea to study the Old Testament including Old
Testament law, the nature of faith etc. and God's character, precepts and
statues, to love God and one's neighbour.

15.1. Knowing and being found in Christ Jesus is what it's all about

Suffering for righteousness sake (suffering for being Christlike).

  Philippians 3:8-11 - Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the
  surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have
  suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I
  may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
  that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the
  righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and the
  power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him
  in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from
  the dead. (ESV)

Jesus' servants (people who obey Him) are found in him. Jesus' servants are
those who have been washed, and they ought to then wash:

  Psalms 34:22 - The LORD redeems the life of his servants; none of those who
  take refuge in him will be condemned. (ESV)

It involves:

• believing the truth
• sanctification while believing the truth
• putting a stop to sin
• becoming holy
• being a slave to righteousness, obeying Jesus
• being obedient to Jesus, instead of being obedient to the world
• I Peter 1:16-22 - since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
holy. And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially
according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear
throughout the time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed
from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with
perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious
blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was
foreknown before the foundation of the world but was made manifest
in the last times for your sake, who through him are believers in
God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your
faith and hope are in God. Having purified your souls by your
obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one
another earnestly from a pure heart, (ESV)
• loving selflessly as Jesus loved

Also, through perfect obedience, Jesus has spoken Father God's commandment of
eternal life, which is what He has said:

• "the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say
and what to speak."

God sent Jesus:

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

  I Peter 3:17 - For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be
  God's will, than for doing evil. (ESV)

Obeying God's will often leads to suffering by the hands of those who are in
darkness:

  I Peter 4:19 - Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will
  entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. (ESV)

15.2. There is no salvation without repentance - we must turn away from sin

3340. metanoeó

Corresponding Greek / Hebrew Entries: The Hebrew equivalent often associated
with repentance is "שוב" (shuv, Strong's H7725), which means to turn back or
return, emphasizing a return to God and His ways.

Usage: The term "metanoeó" is primarily used in the New Testament to denote a
profound change of mind and heart, often associated with turning away from
sin and turning towards God. It involves a recognition of wrongdoing, a
sincere regret or remorse, and a commitment to change one's behavior and
align with God's will. This concept is central to the Christian message of
salvation and is often linked with faith and conversion.

We need to heed Jesus' warning that we need to change our minds or perish. We
have to stop believing falsehood and believe the truth, believe/trust Jesus
and Jesus' words:

  Luke 13:3 - No, I tell you; but unless you repent (3340. metanoeó), you
  will all likewise perish. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 1:9-10 - For they themselves report concerning us the kind
  of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to
  serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he
  raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. (ESV)

  Matthew 9:13 - Go and learn what this means, I desire mercy, and not
  sacrifice. For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. (ESV)

  Acts 20:20-21 - how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that
  was profitable, and teaching you in public and from house to house,
  testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance toward God and of faith
  in our Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

Jesus is our Lord and Master, not sin. Being under grace means we have been
forgiven and now present ourselves as slaves of Righteousness, obeying Jesus:

  Romans 6:9-14 - Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no
  more; death hath no more dominion over him. For in that he died, he died
  unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. Likewise reckon
  ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through
  Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body,
  that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof. Neither yield ye your members
  as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God,
  as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of
  righteousness unto God. For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye
  are not under the law, but under grace. (KJV)

We should be obedient slaves of Righteousness (slaves of Jesus). If you're
not enslaved to Christ you're enslaved to something else - either yourself or
to sin or to the world or to satan. I realise that word 'enslaved' carries
connotations of slavery but it's slavery to Jesus, and freedom from slavery
to sin, slavery from walking in disobedience to God, to instead serve God
through Jesus. No servant is greater than their master, but at least the
servant of Jesus has Jesus has their master.

If we continue on serving, trusting, obeying sin, we will die. But of we
continue serving, trusting, obeying Jesus we will be sanctified and have
eternal life:

  Romans 6:15-23 - What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law but
  under grace? By no means! Do you not know that if you present yourselves to
  anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either
  of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to
  righteousness? But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. When you
  were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. But what
  fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now
  ashamed? The end of those things is death. But now that you have been set
  free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to
  sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death,
  but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

15.3. We must believe the truth, forsake sin, and live to righteousness

Jesus didn't sin. We need to have the same way of thinking as Jesus had. We
need to attempt to cease from sin, and live for the will of God.

  1 Peter 4:1-2 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the
  flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the
  flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. (ESV)

  II Thessalonians 2:13 - But we should always give thanks (G2168
  eucharisteo) to God for you, brethren beloved by the Lord, because God has
  chosen you from the beginning (G746 arche) for salvation through
  sanctification by the Spirit and faith (G4102 pistis) in the truth (G225
  aletheia). (NASB)

Jesus has enabled us to die to sin and live to righteousness:

  1 Peter 2:24 - He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we
  might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been
  healed. (ESV)

  Matthew 25:46 - And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the
  righteous into eternal life. (ESV)

Cleaned up by having faith in the truth.

See how faithfulness is related to faith - faith is faithful to God. Having
faith in God is keeping accountability with God with regard to His commands
and promises and maintaining faithfulness with God who sees in secret:

  II Timothy 2:13 - if we are faithless, he remains faithful— for he cannot
  deny himself. (ESV)

Faith in the truth - strong faith word! Belief and ongoing faithfulness,
trust, reliance.

|  :  4102  pistis  pis'-tis
| 
|   from 3982; persuasion, i.e. credence; moral conviction (of religious
|   truth, or the truthfulness of God or a religious teacher), especially
|   reliance upon Christ for salvation; abstractly, constancy in such
|   profession; by extension, the system of religious (Gospel) truth
|   itself:--assurance, belief, believe, faith, fidelity.
|   see GREEK for 3982

  II Thessalonians 2:11-14 - Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so
  that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who
  did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. But we ought
  always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because
  God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the
  Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel,
  so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

We want to obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ - we do this by being
Christlike through obeying Jesus Christ, which brings glory to Jesus and
glory to God. We obey when we believe and are being sanctified.

  Ephesians 6:14 - Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and
  having put on the breastplate of righteousness,

We must have faith in Jesus for the righteousness of God that comes by faith.
We must believe what He's achieved, and we must be born-again of the Spirit.

  Romans 10:4 - For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to
  everyone who believes (G4100 pisteuo has faith in Jesus).

Saved, and being saved. Being cleaned while believing.

Jesus is our High Priest.

  Romans 8:1 - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in
  Christ Jesus.

  Romans 8:3-4 - For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could
  not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin,
  he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of
  the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but
  according to the Spirit.

Jesus condemned sin in the flesh. Now we walk according to the spirit so that
the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us.

It's still really important to put a stop to sin! And we must walk according
to Jesus' commandments:

  John 14:24 - Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word
  that you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me.

15.3.1. Holiness

I have so far found this series by R. C. Sproul to help clarify the meaning
of the word 'holiness':

Playlist
youtube.com: The Holiness of God - R.C. Sproul

I will defer to the following video by R. C. Sproul:

Watch
youtube.com: The Meaning of Holiness: The Holiness of God with R.C. Sproul

15.3.2. Personal 'holiness' / 'righteousness' (i.e. devotion to Christ)

Quote by R C Sproul
"What makes something sacred, what makes something holy is the touch of God
upon it. When the one who himself is other and different touches that which
is ordinary, it becomes extraordinary."

Undivided devotion to Christ:

  I Corinthians 7:32-35 - I want you to be free from anxieties. The unmarried
  man is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to please the Lord. But
  the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife,
  and his interests are divided. And the unmarried or betrothed woman is
  anxious about the things of the Lord, how to be holy in body and spirit.
  But the married woman is anxious about worldly things, how to please her
  husband. I say this for your own benefit, not to lay any restraint upon
  you, but to promote good order and to secure your undivided devotion to the
  Lord. (ESV)

Sincere and pure devotion to Christ:

  II Corinthians 11:2-3 - I feel a divine jealousy for you, for I betrothed
  you to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. But I am
  afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts will
  be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ. (ESV)

When we repent from sin, and serve Jesus with undivided, sincere and pure
devotion, we allow Jesus' holiness to shine through us increasingly.

Therefore, it's really not our own holiness or power that is responsible for
miracles that happen through us or in cooperation with us, but it is Jesus'
power and holiness.

Jesus is the True Vine. We are the branches. AMEN!! We can do nothing apart
from Him. AMEN!!

  Acts 3:12 - And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of
  Israel, why marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, as though
  by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk? (KJV)

Everyone who names the name of the Lord must depart from iniquity:

  I Corinthians 6:17-20 - But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit
  with him. Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is
  outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own
  body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit
  within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were
  bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.

  II Timothy 2:19-22 - But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal:
  The Lord knows those who are his, and, Let everyone who names the name of
  the Lord depart from iniquity. Now in a great house there are not only
  vessels of gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for honorable
  use, some for dishonorable. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what
  is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy,
  useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. So flee
  youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along
  with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart.

Our bodies are a vessel for Jesus' holiness to shine out of. It's the vessel
of the Holy Spirit:

  1 Thessalonians 4:3-5 - For this is the will of God, your sanctification;
  that is, that you abstain from sexual immorality; that each of you know how
  to possess his own (G1438 heautou) vessel (G4632 skeuos) in sanctification
  and honor, not in lustful passion, like the Gentiles who do not know God;
  (NASB)

We should not deceive our brothers by lying about the matter of sanctifying
our bodies:

  I Thessalonians 4:6-7 - and that no man transgress and defraud his brother
  in the matter because the Lord is the avenger in all these things, just as
  we also told you before and solemnly warned you. For God has not called us
  for the purpose of impurity, but in sanctification. (NASB)

Jesus is the light in us, and we must let our light shine:

  Luke 8:14-16 - And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who
  hear, but as they go on their way they are choked by the cares and riches
  and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature. As for that in the
  good soil, they are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest
  and good heart, and bear fruit with patience. , No one after lighting a
  lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand,
  so that those who enter may see the light. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:15 - Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on
  a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. (ESV)

  Luke 8:21 - But he answered them, My mother and my brothers are those who
  hear the word of God and do it.

The power comes from Jesus:

  Luke 8:46 - But Jesus said, Someone touched me, for I perceive that power
  has gone out from me.

When we repent and clean ourselves up, we allow Jesus' light to shine through
us. The sanctification process is like cleaning a muddy window.

  Luke 6:40 - A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone when he is
  fully trained will be like his teacher.

  Luke 6:41-42 - Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but
  do not notice the log that is in your own eye? How can you say to your
  brother, Brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye, when you
  yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite, first
  take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take out
  the speck that is in your brother's eye.

  John 15:5 - I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I
  in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do
  nothing.

  Luke 6:43 - For no good tree bears bad fruit, nor again does a bad tree
  bear good fruit,

We are the temple of God:

  I Corinthians 3:17 - If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him.
  For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:15-16 - that you may be blameless and innocent, children of
  God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among
  whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so
  that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or
  labor in vain. (ESV)

 1. We approach Christ's very image

  Romans 8:29 - For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be
  conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the
  firstborn among many brothers.

  Hebrews 2:11-12 - For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified
  all have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them
  brothers, saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst
  of the congregation I will sing your praise. (ESV)

 2. Repentance: Put off the old self

  Colossians 3:4-9 - When Christ who is your life appears, then you also
  will appear with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly
  in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and
  covetousness, which is idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God
  is coming. In these you too once walked, when you were living in them.
  But now you must put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and
  obscene talk from your mouth. Do not lie to one another, seeing that
  you have put off the old self with its practices

• Stop sexual immorality.
• Stop idolatry.
• Stop gossip and slander.
• Stop being hateful of people.

  I Corinthians 10:7-14 - Do not be idolaters as some of them were; as it
  is written, The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.
  We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and
  twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We must not put Christ to
  the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor
  grumble, as some of them did and were destroyed by the Destroyer. Now
  these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down
  for our instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come. Therefore
  let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No
  temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is
  faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but
  with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape, that you
  may be able to endure it. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.

 3. Put on the new self: Christ-likeness

  Colossians 3:10-17 - and have put on the new self, which is being
  renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator. Here there is not
  Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian,
  slave, free; but Christ is all, and in all. Put on then, as God's
  chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassion, kindness, humility,
  meekness, and patience, bearing with one another and, if one has a
  complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has
  forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these put on love
  (26. agapé), which binds everything together in perfect harmony. And
  let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were
  called in one body. And be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in
  you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing
  psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts
  to God. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name
  of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.

youtube.com: Should Christians Play Games That Involve Lying? - Ask
Pastor Tim

Brethren, I don't know about you but when I was lost I was a big liar, a
big liar and one of the things that I [did], just being saved, is going
back and actually opening up with people about some of the big lies that
I told and had a lot of impact or effect that I just felt God brought to
my mind and if anything, I mean we should really be striving to be people
that tell the truth.

Now I recognize sometimes we're going to say things and we don't remember
exactly the right way, and we unintentionally say things, but that's
entirely different than you honing your skills to deceive. Biblically
speaking, that is a devilish thing. Yeah, I don't think you can get away
from it. He (the devil) is a liar, he's the father of Lies. God [has] no
lie in Him. Jesus - you cannot find [any deception in Him). Well, there
were times he was silent, there were times he didn't want it to be known
who he was, but you cannot charge him with deception at all.

Yeah, I really don't like the game Coup which seems to be training people
to deceive each other - training people to think in that way. That's the
big problem I think, that it trains people to think in that way, to lie
to gain advantage over someone else. But it's not at all a healthy way of
thinking. Wow, a scripture to back this up.

  Jeremiah 9:5 - Everyone deceives his neighbor, and no one speaks the
  truth; they have taught their tongue to speak lies; they weary
  themselves committing iniquity. (ESV)

15.3.3. What must be believe, and what we must do: Walk in truth and love the
way Jesus has commanded us

We must receive Jesus' words through faith, walk in them through faith and
come to know in truth (we must truly know) that Jesus came from God, and
continue in faith, continuing to be sanctified.

We must practice the truth:

  John 3:21 - But he who practices the truth comes to the Light, so that his
  deeds may be manifested as having been wrought in God.”

  Hebrews 10:14 - For by a single offering he has perfected for all time
  those who are being sanctified.

This is what we must come to know in truth - that Jesus came from Father God,
and that Father God sent Him - it is Father God's will:

  John 17:8 - For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have
  received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and they
  have believed that you sent me.

 1. Come to the knowledge of the truth

  I Timothy 2:3-6 - This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God
  our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the
  knowledge of the truth. For there is one God, and there is one mediator
  between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom
  for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time.

Therefore, we should receive Jesus' words and obey Jesus and arrive at
the truth. Obedience is an essential part of faith. Like Abraham obeying
God, or like Israel crossing through the Red Sea, it's obedience which
leads to sure belief, and obedience that leads a person into sure
knowledge of the truth, and obedience which cooperates with
sanctification by the Spirit.

  Exodus 14:31 - When Israel saw the great power which the Lord had used
  against the Egyptians, the people feared the Lord, and they believed
  (H539 'aman) in the Lord and in His servant Moses.

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed Him,
  “If you continue in My word, then you are truly disciples of Mine; and
  you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” (NASB)

The true knowledge of Jesus grants us everything pertaining to life and
godliness, allowing us to partake in the divine nature:

  II Peter 1:3-4 - seeing that His divine power has granted to us
  everything pertaining to life and godliness, through the true knowledge
  of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence. For by these He
  has granted to us His precious and magnificent promises, so that by
  them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the
  corruption that is in the world by lust. (NASB)

God wants us to know Him and obey Him and to do good as He has commanded:

  Hosea 6:5-8 - Therefore I have hewn them by the prophets; I have slain
  them by the words of my mouth, and my judgment goes forth as the light.
  For I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God
  rather than burnt offerings. But like Adam they transgressed the
  covenant; there they dealt faithlessly with me. Gilead is a city of
  evildoers, tracked with blood. (ESV)

Being set free through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ
is at least in part being set free from the defilements of the world. We
are redeemed, saved from the sinful generation, set free and forgiven,
saved by Jesus, to go on obeying God:

  II Peter 2:20-21 - For if, after they have escaped the defilements of
  the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ,
  they are again entangled in them and overcome, the last state has
  become worse for them than the first. For it would have been better for
  them never to have known the way of righteousness than after knowing it
  to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them.

Then we continue to add Work/Love/Walking-By-Faith/Virtue to be fruitful:

But we must practice Jesus' commandments even before we have arrived at
the knowledge of the truth, in order to arrive at the knowledge of the
truth:

  II Peter 1:8 - For if these qualities are yours and are increasing,
  they render you neither useless nor unfruitful in the true knowledge
  (G1922 epignosis) of our Lord Jesus Christ.

  I John 2:3 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments.

We come to know Him through obeying Him. He is the Truth. God sent Him.
The point at which we have come to know Him is if we are managing to
actually keep His commandments.

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the
  life. No one comes to the Father except through me. (ESV)

Jesus is the living Word. He obeyed God perfectly, and fulfilled the Law,
Prophets and Psalms.

  Psalms 119:160 - The sum of Your word is truth, And every one of Your
  righteous ordinances is everlasting. (ESV)

  John 17:17-19 - Sanctify them in the truth; Your word is truth. As you
  sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for
  their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in
  truth. (ESV)

Jesus is eternally our Great High Priest. I believe this says Father God
has sworn and will not change His mind.

  Psalms 110:4 - The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, You are
  a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.

  Hebrews 4:14 - Since then we have a great high priest who has passed
  through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our
  confession.

  Hebrews 5:9 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him,

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

And the obedience doesn't end. We continue to be sanctified, as slaves of
righteousness, abiding by the teaching of Christ:

  Romans 6:16-18 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to
  anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey,
  either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to
  righteousness? But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of
  sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to
  which you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have
  become slaves of righteousness. (ESV)

And the obedience doesn't end. We continue to be sanctified through
faith. We are saved from darkness, believing the word of God, and in
obedience we are saved from sinning and try to fulfill the Royal Law, and
even using our freedom in Christ to do good works that are pleasing to
God:

  II Peter 1:1-11 - Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ,
  To those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the
  righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ: May grace and peace
  be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. His
  divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and
  godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory
  and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very
  great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the
  divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world
  because of sinful desire. For this very reason, make every effort to
  supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and
  knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and
  steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection,
  and brotherly affection with love. For if these qualities are yours and
  are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in
  the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whoever lacks these
  qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten that he
  was cleansed from his former sins. Therefore, brothers, be all the more
  diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice
  these qualities you will never fall. For in this way there will be
  richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our
  Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

  II Thessalonians 2:11-14 - Therefore God sends them a strong delusion,
  so that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be
  condemned who did not believe the truth but had pleasure in
  unrighteousness. But we ought always to give thanks to God for you,
  brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits
  to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the
  truth. To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain
  the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Continuing to be sanctified by faith is a process where a person
continues in Jesus' words because they are sanctified by faith in Jesus
and that means ongoing trust and faithful obedience.

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive
  forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith
  in me. (ESV)

To be sanctified by faith in Jesus is an applied process, I think:

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive
  forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith
  in me. (ESV)

In similar fashion to Jesus continually obeying Father God as he endured
suffering, I think we should learn to submit and follow Jesus'
commandments

  Hebrews 5:7-10 - In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and
  supplications, with loud cries and tears, to him who was able to save
  him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. Although he
  was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being
  made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey
  him, being designated by God a high priest after the order of
  Melchizedek.

 2. Identity in Christ
• I am a child of God, a born-again son of the Most-High God.
• Galatians 3:26-29 - for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of
God, through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into
Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek,
there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor
female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are
Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to
promise. (ESV)
• I have been bought with the precious blood of Jesus Christ, God's
Only-Begotten Son, redeemed out of the hand of the enemy and called
to be seated in heavenly places with Christ Jesus.
• I Peter 1:19 - but with the precious blood of Christ, like that
of a lamb without blemish or spot. (ESV)
• Psalms 107:2-3 - Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom he
has redeemed from trouble and gathered in from the lands, from
the east and from the west, from the north and from the south.
(ESV)
• Ephesians 2:6 - and raised us up with him and seated us with
him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, (ESV)
• Psalms 106:10 - So he saved them from the hand of the foe and
redeemed them from the power of the enemy. (ESV)
• I have been born-again, not with corruptible seed, but with the
incorruptible seed of the word of God and the washing of
regeneration by the Holy Spirit.
• I Peter 1:23-25 - since you have been born again, not of
perishable seed but of imperishable, through the living and
abiding word of God; for All flesh is like grass and all its
glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, and the
flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And
this word is the good news that was preached to you. (ESV)
• I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.
• Philippians 4:13 - I can do all things through him who
strengthens me. (ESV)
• The same Holy Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead lives in me and
greater is He that is in my than he that is in the world.
• Romans 8:11 - If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the
dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead
will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit
who dwells in you. (ESV)
• I am more than a conqueror through Christ Jesus who loved me and
gave His life for me, and how much more all things also will God
graciously give me having delivered His Son up for us all.
• Romans 8:37 - No, in all these things we are more than
conquerors through him who loved us. (ESV)
• Matthew 7:11 - If you then, who are evil, know how to give good
gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is
in heaven give good things to those who ask him! (ESV)
• Romans 8:32 - He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up
for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us
all things? (ESV)
• I have a new heart, and my desires are for the things of God
• Ezekiel 36:26 - And I will give you a new heart, and a new
spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of
stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. (ESV)
• I love the word of God; I love the Holy Spirit
• Psalms 119:97 - Oh how I love your law! It is my meditation all
the day. (ESV)
• I like meditating on Jesus' name and the truths in this song:
• youtube.com: Rend Collective - YOUR NAME IS POWER
{Official Video}
• Romans 5:5 - and hope does not put us to shame, because God's
love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit
who has been given to us. (ESV)
• I John 4:10 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but
that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for
our sins. (ESV)
• I John 5:3 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his
commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)
• I love prayer and the disciplines of God that make a vessel of
honour for the Lord Jesus and for His mighty good works.
• Romans 12:1 - I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the
mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice,
holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship.
(ESV)
• I Peter 3:15-17 - but in your hearts regard Christ the Lord as
holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who
asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you; yet do it
with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience, so that,
when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in
Christ may be put to shame. For it is better to suffer for
doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil.
(ESV)
• Luke 9:26 - For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of
him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his glory
and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels. (ESV)
• Acts 3:12 - And when Peter saw it he addressed the people: Men
of Israel, why do you wonder at this, or why do you stare at
us, as though by our own power or piety we have made him walk?
(ESV)
• I have been joined to the Lord and I am one spirit with Him.
• I Corinthians 6:17 - But he who is joined to the Lord becomes
one spirit with him. (ESV)
• I am able to fast. I am able to put down my idols. I am able to make
time for God
• Daniel 10:3 - I ate no delicacies, no meat or wine entered my
mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all, for the full three
weeks. (ESV)
• Daniel 1:8 - But Daniel resolved that he would not defile
himself with the king's food, or with the wine that he drank.
Therefore he asked the chief of the eunuchs to allow him not to
defile himself. (ESV)
• Matthew 6:16-18 - And when you fast, do not look gloomy like
the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their
fasting may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have
received their reward. But when you fast, anoint your head and
wash your face, that your fasting may not be seen by others but
by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in
secret will reward you. (ESV)
• I Samuel 7:6 - So they gathered at Mizpah and drew water and
poured it out before the LORD and fasted on that day and said
there, We have sinned against the LORD. And Samuel judged the
people of Israel at Mizpah. (ESV)
• https://www.ligonier.org/guides/fasting
• Luke 10:38-42 - Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a
village. And a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house.
And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet
and listened to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with
much serving. And she went up to him and said, Lord, do you not
care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then
to help me. But the Lord answered her, Martha, Martha, you are
anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is
necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be
taken away from her. (ESV)
• Ecclesiastes 3:11 - He has made everything beautiful in its
time. Also, he has put eternity into man's heart, yet so that
he cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to the
end. (ESV)
• He has anointed me with the Holy Spirit and with power, and I go
around doing good and healing [all] that are oppressed of the devil,
and surely no weapon formed against me shall prosper as I walk in
obedience to His word and will.
• Titus 2:14 - who gave himself for us to redeem us from all
lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own
possession who are zealous for good works. (ESV)
• I am complete/made complete in Christ and if God is for me who can
be against me?
• Colossians 2:9-10 - For in him the whole fullness of deity
dwells bodily, and you have been filled in him, who is the head
of all rule and authority. (ESV)
• Colossians 2:9-10 - For in Him all the fullness of Deity dwells
in bodily form, and in Him you have been made complete, and He
is the head over all rule and authority; (NASB)
• Romans 8:31 - What then shall we say to these things? If God is
for us, who can be against us? (ESV)
• God leads me in triumph in everything through Christ Jesus my Lord,
God and Saviour.
• II Corinthians 2:14 - But thanks be to God, who in Christ
always leads us in triumphal procession, and through us spreads
the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere. (ESV)
• The favour of God opens doors of prosperity and promise ahead of me
and the blessings of God chase me down as I serve Him in obedience.
• Job 36:11 - If they listen and serve him, they complete their
days in prosperity, and their years in pleasantness. (ESV)
• Psalms 34:22 - The LORD redeems the life of his servants; none
of those who take refuge in him will be condemned. (ESV)
• I am anointed to preach the gospel of good news, how God has made a
way through the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ and
His blood, to deliver me from destruction and the power of sin and
my sinful nature and has translated me into the kingdom of God and
His love where He has loved me first and bought me so that I can now
serve Him, obey Him and be zealous for good works
• Mark 16:15 - And he said to them, Go into all the world and
proclaim the gospel to the whole creation. (ESV)
• Matthew 28:20 - teaching them to observe all that I have
commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of
the age. (ESV)
• We are to preach the gospel and not just live out the gospel
• Romans 10:14-17 - But how are they to call on him in whom
they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him
of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear
without someone preaching? And how are they to preach
unless they are sent? As it is written, How beautiful are
the feet of those who preach the good news! But they have
not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has
believed what he has heard from us? So faith comes from
hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. (ESV)
• I choose to worship Him in spirit and in truth, and I will
continually offer up the sacrifices of praise and thanksgiving as I
recognise Jesus Christ as my Lord, God and Saviour
• John 4:23-24 - But the hour is coming, and is now here, when
the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and
truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him.
God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit
and truth. (ESV)
• Mark 7:6-9 - And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of
you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with
their lips, but their heart is far from me; in vain do they
worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. You
leave the commandment of God and hold to the tradition of men.
And he said to them, You have a fine way of rejecting the
commandment of God in order to establish your tradition! (ESV)
• Psalms 59:17 - O my Strength, I will sing praises to you, for
you, O God, are my fortress, the God who shows me steadfast
love. (ESV)
• I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me!
• Philippians 4:13 - I can do all things through him who
strengthens me. (ESV)
• AMEN!!
 3. Become what we are by identity - put to death the old leaven

After being born-again and placed into Christ, we must put to death the
old leaven. We consider ourselves dead to sin and alive from the dead.

We continue trusting, believing Jesus Christ and we will never die.

A believer in Jesus Christ though he dies, he shall live:

• Whoever believes in Jesus Christ, though he die, yet shall he live.

Everyone who lives and believes in Jesus Christ shall never die.

  John 11:25-26 - Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life.
  Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone
  who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?
  (ESV)

I believe that after being born-again of the spirit, I had (with very
little knowledge of Jesus' commandments) had to learn Jesus' commandments
and apply them, and I believe the Holy Spirit taught me to obey Jesus as
I read Jesus' sayings and was subsequently tested on those sayings. For
example, if I read that we must give to all who ask, and then the Lord
sets up a situation where someone asks for money, then I have a choice to
obey Jesus, which means resisting those who try to deter me from obeying
Jesus. Upon being tested, someone would offer worldly wisdom in an
attempt to deter me from following Jesus, and as I obey God I am led by
the Holy Spirit, and taught by the Holy Spirit. And this is an ongoing
process. I say this for others' sake to explain how I have come to know
how faith in Jesus, following Jesus, works practically, that it is more
than mere intellectual belief to be led by the Spirit, but it is also
obedience, and a process of sanctification, and walking in the light
which involves walking in love characteristic of Christ's love.

  Galatians 6:14-17 - But far be it from me to boast except in the cross
  of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me,
  and I to the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. And as for all who walk by this
  rule, peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God. From
  now on let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of
  Jesus. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Be Who You Are: Living Out Identity in Christ, Part 1

Those who have been united with Christ really are in reality an
'unleavened' lump, and we attack the old leaven to get it out. We have
been made new with union in Christ, and then we must then become in
experience what we are in reality. The old leaven lingers, so we attack
the remaining leaven:

  I Corinthians 5:6-7 - Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a
  little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven that
  you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our
  Passover lamb, has been sacrificed. (ESV)

We must consider ourselves dead to sin and alive to God:

  Romans 6:2,11 - By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in
  it? So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God
  in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

Because we have died and our life is hidden with Christ in God we should
put to death what is earthly in us. We are really unleavened so we should
cleanse out the old leaven:

  Colossians 3:3-5 - For you have died, and your life is hidden with
  Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will
  appear with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in
  you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and
  covetousness, which is idolatry. (ESV)

youtube.com: The Narrow Road is Lonely….No One Tells You This @time: 10
min 53 sec
Jesus is the example for us to follow and become more like Him. And as we
follow Him, we get cleaner, we get purer, our minds are renewed, the
impurities start to wash away. He starts to prune us. Our hearts start to
soften. We start to align more with His will for us, with his desires for
us. We start learning who our identity is, when the enemy our whole lives
has been trying to steal the true knowledge of who we are. He never wants
us to find out who we are in Christ. [The enemy] wants us to give us
identity in this world. That's why we place our identity so much on the
things that we have, on the political leaders we follow, on the clothes
we wear, on the music artists we listen to. [The enemy] wants us to
identify with the things of this world because it'll keep us further away
from our true identity in Christ, and so he convinces us that it's our
own idea, that this identity that we've created and manufactured for
ourselves was our idea, it's our desire, it's exactly what we want - I
identify as this, I identify as that, we have flags for everything.

II John 1:1-11 highlights:

• knowing the truth
• the truth abiding in us
• walking in the truth
• we are commanded to do so
• love one another and loving one another is walking according to
Jesus' commandments commandments
• we are commanded to do so
• lose not what we have worked for, but may win a full reward
• to not abide in this teaching is to work wickedness

  II John 1:1-11 - The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I
  love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth, because
  of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever: Grace,
  mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus
  Christ the Father's Son, in truth and love. I rejoiced greatly to find
  some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded
  by the Father. And now I ask you, dear lady—not as though I were
  writing you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the
  beginning—that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk
  according to his commandments; this is the commandment, just as you
  have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it. For many
  deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the
  coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the
  antichrist. Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have
  worked for, but may win a full reward. Everyone who goes on ahead and
  does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever
  abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes
  to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your
  house or give him any greeting, for whoever greets him takes part in
  his wicked works. (ESV)

Paul has taught the Ephesians to follow the teachings of the Lord Jesus
Christ. He said we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord
Jesus:

  Acts 20:35 - In all things I have shown you that by working hard in
  this way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord
  Jesus, how he himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
  (ESV)

It's imperative that as we go ahead, we must abide in the teaching of
Christ, or we won't have God (Jehovah God), and God is love and love
comes from God, so we need to abide in Christ's teachings, by belief and
by obedience. For example, in Mark 10:18, Jesus affirmed that God is
Good. Therefore when we read this, we must also be sanctified by this
truth, affirming and coming into agreement that God is Good. Also, Jesus
commanded us to love one another as He loved us John 13:34-35:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching
  has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not
  bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any
  greeting, (ESV)

Definitely stop obeying sin after receiving the knowledge of the truth:

  Hebrews 10:26-29 - For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving
  the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for
  sins, but a fearful expectation of judgment, and a fury of fire that
  will consume the adversaries. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses
  dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much
  worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has
  spurned the Son of God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by
  which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of grace? (ESV)

Don't live in fear over the warning in Hebrews 10:26-29, just continue
confessing sin and continue being sanctified:

  I Corinthians 13:12 - For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face
  to face. Now I know in part; then I shall know fully, even as I have
  been fully known. (ESV)

Continue to be sanctified by faith in Jesus:

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive
  forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith
  in me. (ESV)

Continue to confess sin:

  I John 1:9 - If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive
  us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:14 - For by a single offering he has perfected for all time
  those who are being sanctified. (ESV)

To know if Jesus' teaching comes from God, one must desire to do God's
will.

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether
  the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority.
  (ESV)

Therefore, to arrive at the knowledge of the truth, you've got to have an
obedient heart.

16. Sanctification

16.1. Allow myself to be corrected

  Psalms 141:5 - Let a righteous man strike me—it is a kindness; let him
  rebuke me—it is oil for my head; let my head not refuse it. Yet my prayer
  is continually against their evil deeds. (ESV)

We are being prepared to be presented to Jesus:

  Colossians 1:21-22 - And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind,
  doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death,
  in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him,
  (ESV)

• Read : davidkitz.blog: The Need for Correction | I love the Psalms

16.1.1. The Holy Spirit will teach you

Word of encouragedment
youtube.com: Wilderness How To Come Out / New Wineskin New Season #2024

16.2. Be corrected by the truth

  John 17:17-19 - Sanctify them in the truth; Your word is truth. As you sent
  me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I
  consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth. (ESV)

As we are have faith in Jesus, even obeying Him to go out into the world, we
are also sanctified by the Truth, as Jesus has consecrated Himself.

We are healed, corrected, sanctified by God's word.

I believe that becoming the righteousness of God is initially instantaneous
when we believe but going forward it also is cooperative as we live,
submitting to the righteousness of God (Jesus' righteousness) and then being
found in Jesus, letting Jesus wash us, and work in us, transform us, and that
a childlike trust in Jesus (a believing and obedient trust), following Jesus,
walking in faith, and behaving as one of God's children, following Jesus our
Lord and Saviour is how we receive and walk into the kingdom which is given
to us and that walking in a childlike faith in Jesus is how we have the
righteousness that is by faith.

An adequate reading of the following which makes sense to me is that being
found in Jesus, we have a righteousness which does indeed belong to us but it
belongs also to Jesus who we are found in. The righteousness which we have in
Jesus doesn't come from the law but through faith in Jesus, depending on
faith in Jesus. In other words, the righteousness is not our own apart from
Jesus, but the righteousness still belongs to us if it is the righteousness
of faith in Jesus, us being found in Jesus. Our righteousness being found in
Jesus doesn't make it self-righteousness to obey God's commandments:

  Philippians 3:9 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
  that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the
  righteousness from God that depends on faith— (ESV)

I believe we have righteousness because we are found in Him, and He is our
High Priest and or Lord and King, and Saviour. Living by faith is a lifestyle
to be found in Jesus and that's how we have righteousness from Him, because
we are found in Him and are being perfected and sanctified like a branch
getting healthier because it's connected to Jesus. It does not mean we are
able to displace Him as the head of the body because we don't have
righteousness apart from Him (as far as I understand):

  II Corinthians 5:21-6:1 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no
  sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Working
  together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God
  in vain. (ESV)

The Holy Spirit goes to those who obey God, and causes the person to walk in
God's precepts - stopping lying, stealing, coveting, idolizing, cheating,
etc.

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

16.3. Repent of evil deeds, feelings and thoughts

  Ephesians 4:30-32 - And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you
  were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and
  anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice.
  Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in
  Christ forgave you. (ESV)

16.4. Renew our minds

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

Believe in the power of God's Word, allow myself to be corrected, and
sanctified by the washing of the Word. Actually read the Scriptures to see
what God finds acceptable:

  Ephesians 5:26 - that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the
  washing of water with the word, (ESV)

We are being prepared to be presented to Jesus:

  I Peter 1:13 - Therefore, preparing your minds for action, and being
  sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you
  at the revelation of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

Devotional
star.net.nz: -gods-word-renews-2024[07][04]

16.5. Be qualified regarding the faith - renewed in mind, not opposing the truth

  II Timothy 3:8 - Just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these men
  also oppose the truth, men corrupted in mind and disqualified regarding the
  faith. (ESV)

  Colossians 2:18 - Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and
  worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without
  reason by his sensuous mind, (ESV)

  I Timothy 6:5 - and constant friction among people who are depraved in mind
  and deprived of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain.
  (ESV)

  I Timothy 3:2 - Therefore an overseer must be above reproach, the husband
  of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able
  to teach, (ESV)

16.5.1. Set our mind on heavenly things, not earthly things

  Colossians 3:2 - Set your minds on things that are above, not on things
  that are on earth. (ESV)

  Philippians 3:19 - Their end is destruction, their god is their belly, and
  they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. (ESV)

  II Thessalonians 2:1-2 - Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ
  and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be
  quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or
  a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has
  come. (ESV)

16.6. Put a stop to sin and practice personal righteousness

Because God loved us first:

• The Apostle Paul endeavours to know Jesus ('makes it his own'. See Php
| 9-13 below) because Jesus made Paul His own
• To be found in Jesus is what Paul describes as the righteousness
from God that depends on faith
• We know Jesus by believing in Him and obeying His commandments, and
when we love and forgive we know God loved us and forgave us first
• We should love because He loved us first
• Romans 5:7-8 - For one will scarcely die for a righteous
person—though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die—
but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners,
Christ died for us. (ESV)
• We must forgive as we have been forgiven

Practicing righteousness is an indicator that someone is born of God:

  I John 3:7 - Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous.

  I John 2:29 - If you know that he is righteous, you may be sure that
  everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him. (ESV)

  I John 3:10 - By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who
  are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is
  not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother.

  I Peter 2:24 - He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we
  might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been
  healed.

We must honour God with our bodies:

  Romans 6:13 - Do not present your members to sin as instruments for
  unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been
  brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for
  righteousness. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 6:19-20 - Or do you not know that your body is a temple of
  the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own,
  for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. (ESV)

We must be born of God, die to sin and practice righteousness.

Then while practicing righteousness after dying to sin, we may suffer for
practicing righteousness.

Therefore this righteousness is a personal righteousness, which we practice
after dying to sin.

  I Peter 3:14 But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you
  will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled,

Faith working through love is obeying Jesus.

  Galatians 5:5-6 - For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly
  wait for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus neither
  circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working
  through love.

Paul awaits Christ to be formed in the person:

  Galatians 4:18-19 - It is always good to be made much of for a good
  purpose, and not only when I am present with you, my little children, for
  whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth until Christ is formed in you!

We want Christ to dwell in our hearts through faith:

  Ephesians 3:14-19 - For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from
  whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that according to the
  riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through
  his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts
  through faith — that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have
  strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length
  and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses
  knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. (ESV)

16.7. Sanctification by the Spirit and faith / obedience

  2 Thessalonians 2:13-15 - But we ought always to give thanks to God for
  you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits
  to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.
  To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory
  of our Lord Jesus Christ. So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the
  traditions that you were taught by us, either by our spoken word or by our
  letter. (ESV)

  II Thessalonians 2:13 - But we should always give thanks (G2168
  eucharisteo) to God for you, brethren beloved by the Lord, because God has
  chosen you from the beginning (G746 arche) for salvation through
  sanctification by the Spirit and faith (G4102 pistis) in the truth (G225
  aletheia). (NASB)

Faith in the truth - pistis is a strong faith word!

  II Thessalonians 2:11-15 - Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so
  that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who
  did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. But we ought
  always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because
  God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the
  Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel,
  so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. So then,
  brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us,
  either by our spoken word or by our letter. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:10 - And by that will we have been sanctified through the
  offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. (ESV)

  1 Thessalonians 4:3 - For this is the will of God, your sanctification:
  that you abstain (568. apechó) from sexual immorality; (ESV)

|  apechó: to hold back, keep off, to be away, be distant
|  Original Word: ἀπέχω
|  Part of Speech: Verb
|  Transliteration: apechó
|  Phonetic Spelling: (ap-ekh'-o)
|  Definition: to hold back, keep off, to be away, be distant
|  Usage: I have in full, am far, it is enough.

God hates evil and wants to clean us from it. So if we fear God then we also
want to turn away from evil and do what is pleasing to God:

  Proverbs 8:13 - The fear of the LORD is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance
  and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate. (ESV)

It's really important to purify ourselves of every defilement of body and
spirit. Paul the Apostle quotes the Old Testament on this:

  II Corinthians 6:14-18 - Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For
  what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has
  light with darkness? What accord has Christ with Belial? Or what portion
  does a believer share with an unbeliever? What agreement has the temple of
  God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God; as God said, I
  will make my dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their
  God, and they shall be my people. Therefore go out from their midst, and be
  separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will
  welcome you, and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and
  daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty. (ESV)

  Isaiah 52:11 - Depart, depart, go out from there; touch no unclean thing;
  go out from the midst of her; purify yourselves, you who bear the vessels
  of the LORD. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 7:1 - Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse
  ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to
  completion in the fear of God. (ESV)

I want to be sanctified completely:

  I Thessalonians 5:23 - Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you
  completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless
  at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

There is no lust in the divine nature:

  II Peter 1:4 - by which he has granted to us his precious and very great
  promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine
  nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of
  sinful desire. (ESV)

I want to bring glory to God by being a living sacrifice - living in a holy
manner pleasing to God:

  Romans 12:1 - I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God,
  to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God,
  which is your spiritual worship. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 6:20 - for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in
  your body. (ESV)

We must keep and accept the precepts of God over the precepts of men:

  Mark 7:6-9 - And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you
  hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but
  their heart is far from me; in vain do they worship me, teaching as
  doctrines the commandments of men. You leave the commandment of God and
  hold to the tradition of men. And he said to them, You have a fine way of
  rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition!
  (ESV)

This passage is condemning submitting to worldly / human precepts and
imploring us to submit to God's precepts. It's not condemning God's precepts
but imploring us to put to death what is against God's precepts:

  Colossians 2:20-23,3:1-6 - If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits
  of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit
  to regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch (referring to
  things that all perish as they are used)—according to human precepts and
  teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made
  religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value
  in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. If then you have been raised with
  Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the
  right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things
  that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ
  in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear
  with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. (ESV)

  1 Thessalonians 5:23 :: Himself now the God - of peace may sanctify you
  completely and entirely your - spirit (pneuma) and - soul (psyche) and -
  body (soma blameless at the coming of the Lord of us Jesus Christ may be
  preserved (Interlinear)

  I Thessalonians 5:23 - Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you
  completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless
  at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

16.8. God is the source of our life in Christ Jesus. Jesus is the source of our
wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption

  1 Corinthians 1:30-31 - He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom
  God made our wisdom and our righteousness and sanctification and
  redemption. Therefore, as it is written, Let the one who boasts, boast in
  the Lord. (ESV)

16.8.1. We only boast in Christ Jesus, since He is our wisdom, righteousness,
sanctification and redemption

He is our wisdom, righteousness, sanctification and redemption.

Yes, but that means we must have faith in Him, obeying Him and becoming like
Him, and that brings us confidence, because He's in us, and we don't have our
lamp hidden, but are cleaned up:

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

We are wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.

  2 Timothy 3:15 - and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the
  sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through
  faith in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

We must put our trust in Jesus and believe Him and obey Him, and be cleaned
up, shining His light:

  I Corinthians 1:28-29 - God chose what is low and despised in the world,
  even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no
  human being might boast in the presence of God.

  Psalms 5:5 - The boastful shall not stand before your eyes; you hate all
  evildoers. (ESV)

The cross means a changed life, becoming like Jesus, keeping Jesus'
commandments:

  Galatians 6:13-15 - For even those who are circumcised do not themselves
  keep the law, but they desire to have you circumcised that they may boast
  in your flesh. But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our
  Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I to
  the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 7:19 - For neither circumcision counts for anything nor
  uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. (ESV)

16.8.2. Filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ,
to the glory and praise of God

God through Jesus is the source of our personal righteousness as we are found
in Him, and our righteousness comes through Him. That personal righteousness
doesn't belong to us alone, but it also belongs to Christ because it comes
from Christ:

  Philippians 1:9-11 - And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and
  more, with knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve what is
  excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, filled with
  the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory
  and praise of God.

16.9. Sanctification is being cleaned from sin and brought into believing and
practicing truth

It means sin is being stopped in your thoughts and deeds, brought out of
believing and practicing darkness into believing and practicing truth - being
cleaned from sin.

To be sanctified means to have God's law on one's heart and mind so that they
are walking in the light, obeying God, and God forgives them:

  Leviticus 22:31-33 - So you shall keep my commandments and do them: I am
  the LORD. And you shall not profane my holy name, that I may be sanctified
  among the people of Israel. I am the LORD who sanctifies you, who brought
  you out of the land of Egypt to be your God: I am the LORD. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:10-17 - And by that will we have been sanctified through the
  offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest stands
  daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can
  never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single
  sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that
  time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a
  single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being
  sanctified. And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying,
  This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares
  the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them on their
  minds, then he adds, I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no
  more. (ESV)

We are sanctified by faith in Jesus (trusting Jesus):

  Acts 26:16-18 - But rise and stand upon your feet, for I have appeared to
  you for this purpose, to appoint you as a servant and witness to the things
  in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you,
  delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles—to whom I am sending
  you to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and
  from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins
  and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. (ESV)

By faith in Jesus (trusting Jesus), we are sanctified in Truth:

  John 17:19 - And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be
  sanctified in truth. (ESV)

In trusting Jesus (having faith in Jesus), we are sanctified in Truth by the
Holy Spirit:

  Romans 15:15-16 - But on some points I have written to you very boldly by
  way of reminder, because of the grace given me by God to be a minister of
  Christ Jesus to the Gentiles in the priestly service of the gospel of God,
  so that the offering of the Gentiles may be acceptable, sanctified by the
  Holy Spirit. (ESV)

  II Thessalonians 2:11-13 - For this reason God will send upon them a
  deluding influence so that they will believe what is false, in order that
  they all may be judged who did not believe the truth, but took pleasure in
  wickedness. But we should always give thanks (G2168 eucharisteo) to God for
  you, brethren beloved by the Lord, because God has chosen you from the
  beginning (G746 arche) for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit
  and faith (G4102 pistis) in the truth (G225 aletheia). (NASB)

Cleaned up from sin by having faith in the truth.

Faith in the truth - strong faith word! Belief and ongoing faithfulness,
trust, reliance.

|  :  4102  pistis  pis'-tis
| 
|   from 3982; persuasion, i.e. credence; moral conviction (of religious
|   truth, or the truthfulness of God or a religious teacher), especially
|   reliance upon Christ for salvation; abstractly, constancy in such
|   profession; by extension, the system of religious (Gospel) truth
|   itself:--assurance, belief, believe, faith, fidelity.
|   see GREEK for 3982

16.9.1. Corruption remains a problem even for the regenerated

The 1689 Baptist confession affirms that the problem of corruption remains
after regeneration:

|  Paragraph 5
| 
|  The corruption of nature, during this life,
|  does remain in those that are regenerated;13
|  and although it be through Christ pardoned and
|  mortified, yet both itself, and the first
|  motions thereof, are truly and properly sin.14
| 
|  13 Rom. 7:18,23; Eccles. 7:20; 1 John 1:8
|   14 Rom. 7:23–25; Gal. 5:17

  Romans 7:23-25 - but I see in my members another law waging war against the
  law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my
  members. Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of
  death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself
  serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of
  sin. (ESV)

I affirm that even after regeneration and being healed, corruption has
remained a problem for me, partly because of the influence the world I live
in has had on me, but also because I need to be renewed in mind:

• the influences of worldly people, and
• I Corinthians 15:33 - Do not be deceived: Bad company ruins good
morals. (ESV)
• the influences of demons
• I need to just focus on Jesus more

So sanctification has continued for me after being regenerated. Being
sanctified by the Truth by faith in Jesus Christ is and has been a fight.

But for the person born of God, they have died to sin, it no longer has a
legal hold over them, they cannot keep on doing it, they absolutely hate the
sin and we fight against it. We are being sanctified as we come into
alignment with the Truth, walking in the light, believing and obeying the
Truth, Word of God.

  Romans 8:1-4 - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in
  Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ
  Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law,
  weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness
  of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that
  the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not
  according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. (ESV)

  I John 1:9 - If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
  our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. (ESV)

  I John 3:9 - No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed
  abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of
  God. (ESV)

16.9.2. Bad desire - leads to death. We do not want to be enslaved to
corruption

Book
timothykeller.com: Counterfeit Gods - Timothy Keller

Sermon
youtube.com: Counterfeit Gods - Tim Keller

Lust is super bad, even after born-again:

  II Peter 2:19-21 - They promise them freedom, but they themselves are
  slaves of corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is
  enslaved. For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world
  through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again
  entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for them
  than the first. For it would have been better for them never to have known
  the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the holy
  commandment delivered to them.

16.9.3. Good desire - Love God and one's neighbour

  Deuteronomy 11:13 - And if you will indeed obey my commandments that I
  command you today, to love the Lord your God, and to serve him with all
  your heart and with all your soul,

  Deuteronomy 30:6 - And the Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the
  heart of your offspring, so that you will love the Lord your God with all
  your heart and with all your soul, that you may live.

  Joshua 22:5 - Only be very careful to observe the commandment and the law
  that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, to love the Lord your
  God, and to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments and to cling
  to him and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul.

  Luke 10:27 - And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all
  your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all
  your mind, and your neighbor as yourself.

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the Lord.

17. Clearing up justifying faith vs justifying works - It's faith in Jesus Himself
that matters. Also, it's God who justifies us, not we who justify ourselves. We
have faith in God to justify us, as we place our faith in Him

I believe that when a person actually obeys Jesus' commandments out of love
for Jesus, this isn't working for justification, but is as if Jesus is
working through them.

Jesus is the Rock:

  I Corinthians 10:4 - and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank
  from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. (ESV)

Belief is important (and is an initial act of obedience):

  Matthew 16:15-18 - He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon
  Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus
  answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not
  revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you
  are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell
  shall not prevail against it. (ESV)

Obedience is important:

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

Jehovah is the Rock:

  Deuteronomy 32:3-4 - For I will proclaim the name of the LORD (3068. Yhvh);
  ascribe greatness to our God! The Rock, his work is perfect, for all his
  ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and
  upright is he. (ESV)

  Isaiah 44:8 - Fear not, nor be afraid; have I not told you from of old and
  declared it? And you are my witnesses! Is there a God besides me? There is
  no Rock; I know not any. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:4 - and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank
  from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. (ESV)

It seems reasonable to me to say that God the Father and God the Son share
their names/onoma:

  John 5:43 - I have come in my Father's name (onomati), and you do not
  receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. (ESV)

Genesis 19:24 seems to read that while the LORD was on earth investigating
Sodom He rained sulfur and fire from the LORD in heaven. Does this indicate
more than one Person acting as the LORD? Starting at Genesis 18:1:

  Genesis 18:1 - And the LORD appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat
  at the door of his tent in the heat of the day. (ESV)

  Genesis 18:20-23 - Then the LORD said, Because the outcry against Sodom and
  Gomorrah is great and their sin is very grave, I will go down to see
  whether they have done altogether according to the outcry that has come to
  me. And if not, I will know. So the men turned from there and went toward
  Sodom, but Abraham still stood before the LORD. Then Abraham drew near and
  said, Will you indeed sweep away the righteous with the wicked? (ESV)

It's definitely Almighty God, the Judge of all the earth:

  Genesis 18:25-26 - Far be it from you to do such a thing, to put the
  righteous to death with the wicked, so that the righteous fare as the
  wicked! Far be that from you! Shall not the Judge of all the earth do what
  is just? And the LORD said, If I find at Sodom fifty righteous in the city,
  I will spare the whole place for their sake. (ESV)

  Genesis 18:32-33 - Then he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will
  speak again but this once. Suppose ten are found there. He answered, For
  the sake of ten I will not destroy it. And the LORD went his way, when he
  had finished speaking to Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place. (ESV)

  Genesis 19:24 - Then the LORD rained on Sodom and Gomorrah sulfur and fire
  from the LORD out of heaven. (ESV)

Building our lives on Jesus means believing Him and obeying Him:

  Matthew 7:24-27 - Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them
  will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell,
  and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did
  not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears
  these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who
  built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and
  the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the
  fall of it. (ESV)

  John 5:37-40 - And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about
  me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you
  do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he
  has sent. You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have
  eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me, yet you refuse to
  come to me that you may have life. (ESV)

youtube.com: How to Find Gold in God's Word: Reading the Bible with
Supernatural Help

If I hear Jesus' commandment to repent from sin, for example, and I
obediently repent, then that is walking by faith. Since faith comes from
hearing the word of Christ - and there faith could come from any part of His
teaching. So if I try to actually follow Jesus' commandments, and that leads
me to believe that Jesus is who He says He is (consider the Apostle Thomas
and his slow belief), then when I arrive at a belief that Jesus is who He
says He is, the Son of God, and the Christ, the Messiah, the Anointed one,
the obedience of one of Jesus commandments leads to more belief and more
obedience.

  James 2:14-26 - What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith
  but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is
  poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go
  in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them the things needed for
  the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have
  works, is dead. But someone will say, You have faith and I have works. Show
  me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my
  works. You believe that God is one; you do well. Even the demons
  believe—and shudder! Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that
  faith apart from works is useless? Was not Abraham our father justified by
  works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar? You see that faith was
  active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works; and the
  Scripture was fulfilled that says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted
  to him as righteousness—and he was called a friend of God. You see that a
  person is justified by works and not by faith alone. And in the same way
  was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the
  messengers and sent them out by another way? For as the body apart from the
  spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. (ESV)

Even from James' perspective, it's clearly apparent that God surely can
forgive people without work on their part:

  James 5:15-16 - And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and
  the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be
  forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one
  another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great
  power as it is working. (ESV)

I think the solution to the justification by 'faith without work' and
justification by 'faith with works' apparent paradox is that:

• if a person is actually obeying Jesus then the works can be attributed to
Jesus, and
• obedience is just one aspect of faith.

Because it's faith in Jesus Himself that matters.

Jesus makes it clear that the ones who truly believe in Him will do the works
which He does:

  John 14:12 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also
  do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I
  am going to the Father. (ESV)

James believes that people can see the evidence of faith by works:

  James 2:22-26 - You see that faith was active along with his works, and
  faith was completed by his works; and the Scripture was fulfilled that
  says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness—and
  he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works
  and not by faith alone. And in the same way was not also Rahab the
  prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent
  them out by another way? For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so
  also faith apart from works is dead. (ESV)

But works by us done in righteousness are not the reason God showed mercy on
us to save us. In fact we were all at one point disobedient. God in His mercy
simply gave us His Holy Spirit in abundance to wash us, to regenerate us and
to renew us, and He did this so that being justified by His grace, we might
become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. We were once really
disobedient, but by God's grace through faith in Jesus we are now obedient.
The faith was becoming obedient to Jesus, and out of it flows good works and
obedience:

  Titus 3:3-8 - For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray,
  slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and
  envy, hated by others and hating one another. But when the goodness and
  loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of
  works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the
  washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out
  on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by
  his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. The
  saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these things, so that
  those who have believed in God may be careful to devote themselves to good
  works. These things are excellent and profitable for people. (ESV)

So Jesus saves us to become set free from various passions and pleasures and
to become far more obedient to righteousness, and this is done through faith
in Jesus Christ. Believing in Jesus Christ is the entry point for the
salvation that is through Him.

So the point I'm trying to make is that the free gift of the Holy Spirit is
received by faith alone, just be trusting in Jesus Christ to be saved, but
Jesus Christ helps us to become slaves of righteousness which leads to
eternal life.

Therefore I still think there's a false dichotomy between faith and works -
because obedience is intrinsic to faith, but the gift of the Holy Spirit
remains a completely free gift which is received through faith and that merit
by works of righteousness is not the reason why it's given to us, but
nevertheless, the Holy Spirit is given to those who obey Him.

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:14 - so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come
  to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through
  faith. (ESV)

Some people think that this obedience means it's no longer a free gift, where
I do not agree with those people. I think that the obedience to Jesus is
receiving the free gift through faith.

  John 6:28-29 - Then they said to him, What must we do, to be doing the
  works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you
  believe (G4100 pisteuo) in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

True faith is always obedient; faith is always prepared to obey more:

  John 7:17- If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority.

Through faith in Jesus / obedience to Jesus we can have faith in Father God:

  I Peter 1:20-22 - He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but
  was made manifest in the last times for your sake, who through him are
  believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that
  your faith and hope are in God. Having purified your souls by your
  obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another
  earnestly from a pure heart, (ESV)

You can't even have faith in God without obeying Jesus because the one who
has faith in God has already obeyed Jesus whether they know about Mark 11:22
or not. So it's not a dead work.

  Philippians 2:12 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out
  (G2716 katergazomai) your own salvation with fear and trembling, (ESV)

Having believed in Jesus, having begun to trust in Jesus, we have become
obedient to Jesus. Jesus works on us as we trust in Him even before we
understand what He's doing, and we have become obedient because he commanded
us to trust Him:

  John 13:6-7 - He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my
  feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but
  afterward you will understand. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper

God is saying, "I have done everything from eternity past in the for knowing
of my son to eternity future in the glorifying of my son that you might hope
in Me, God!" So that you might not hope in what sin can offer you, but hope
in what God can offer you.

The wages of sin is death but the free gift of God is eternal life.
Therefore, he who hopes in sin dies, and he who hopes in God lives forever.

Everything has been done for you that you might escape from the futile way of
sin and put your hope in God forever.

I close by calling you to wake up to the folly of hoping in sin and to stop
trying to satisfy your hearts with sin and to start satisfying your hearts
with God.

And justifying faith is having obedient faith in God with regards to the
promise given to Abraham.

Obeying God is having faith in God. Obeying God is loving God. AMEN!!

  Mark 11:22 - And Jesus answered them, Have (G2192 echo) faith (G4102
  pistis) in God (G2316 theos). (ESV)

pistis is the faith noun.

  John 14:1 - “Do not let your heart be troubled; believe (G4100 pisteuo) in
  God, believe (G4100 pisteuo) also in Me. (NASB)

pisteuo is the faith verb.

echo means 'to hold' - so in Mark 11:22 Jesus says 'hold faith' in God. And
in John 14:1 Jesus tells us to 'do faith' in God and to 'do faith' in Him.

If you are believing in Jesus, then you are obediently working.

To be justified by working faith, a person must have the faith of Abraham. By
faith Abraham obeyed. So the faith has the fruit of walking in the footsteps
of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

Having faith in God is obeying God. Loving God is obeying God. AMEN!!

So what Jesus is saying is quite similar - we must have the faith that
Abraham had when he put Isaac on the Altar, but in regards to following
Jesus:

  Luke 9:23-24 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him
  deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would
  save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will
  save it. (ESV)

17.0.1. Salvation by obedience

We need to believe and then call on Jesus to save us, (usually out of
desperation). This is another act of obedience to the Gospel. We don't call
on a law to save us; we call on Jesus to save us. That looks like beating
hand on chest, wanting to turn from sin and begging God to save us:

  Romans 10:12-14 - For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; the
  same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For
  everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. But how are they
  to call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe
  in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without
  someone preaching? (ESV)

Ironically, I feel like this word hupakouó which means to "fully hearken"
(it's an intensification of the verb "to listen" with connotations of paying
attention and responding to obey) may have been "demoted" in meaning by many
people to not at all mean "fully hearken to / become obedient to the
command":

  Romans 10:16 - But they have not all obeyed (G5219. hupakouó - I listen,
  hearken to, obey, answer) the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has
  believed (G4100 pisteuó) what he has heard from us? (ESV)

  Acts 5:29-32 - But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather
  than men. The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging
  him on a tree. God exalted him at his right hand as Leader and Savior, to
  give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And we are witnesses to
  these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who
  obey him. (ESV)

Where there is perfect belief, I think there is perfect obedience. i.e. if we
hold firm to belief in Jesus, keeping and believing His sayings and obey
Jesus through testing, we have eternal life and will see life:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

I am confident also that if we hold firm to obedience in Jesus keeping and
obeying His sayings and believe Jesus through testing, we have eternal life
and will see life:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, If you
  abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth,
  and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

Since Jesus commanded us to have faith in Him, to trust in Jesus is to have
obeyed Him.

Quote by John Piper

God is saying, "I have done everything from eternity past in the for knowing
of my son to eternity future in the glorifying of my son that you might hope
in Me, God!" So that you might not hope in what sin can offer you, but hope
in what God can offer you.

The wages of sin is death but the free gift of God is eternal life.
Therefore, he who hopes in sin dies, and he who hopes in God lives forever.

Everything has been done for you that you might escape from the futile way of
sin and put your hope in God forever.

I close by calling you to wake up to the folly of hoping in sin and to stop
trying to satisfy your hearts with sin and to start satisfying your hearts
with God.

Through faith in Jesus, and obedience to Jesus we can have faith in Father
God:

  I Peter 1:20-22 - He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but
  was made manifest in the last times for your sake, who through him are
  believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that
  your faith and hope are in God. Having purified your souls by your
  obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another
  earnestly from a pure heart, (ESV)

Have faith in God:

  Mark 11:22 - And Jesus answered them, Have (G2192 echo) faith (G4102
  pistis) in God (G2316 theos).

Have faith in God and have faith in Jesus:

  John 14:1 - “Do not let your heart be troubled; believe (G4100 pisteuo) in
  God, believe (G4100 pisteuo) also in Me.

Pisteuo means to trust. Trust in God, trust also in God's Son Jesus:

  Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts (G4100 pisteuo)
  him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, (ESV)

Learning to trust in Jesus, learning to trust Jesus, as we obey Him and
witness His glory, and come to trust in Him, to believe in Him. Obedience to
Jesus leads to witnessing His glory which inspires our faith:

  John 2:7-11 - Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water. And
  they filled them up to the brim. And he said to them, Now draw some out and
  take it to the master of the feast. So they took it. When the master of the
  feast tasted the water now become wine, and did not know where it came from
  (though the servants who had drawn the water knew), the master of the feast
  called the bridegroom and said to him, Everyone serves the good wine first,
  and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. But you have kept
  the good wine until now. This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in
  Galilee, and manifested his glory. And his disciples (G3101 mathetes)
  believed (G4100 pisteuo) in him. (ESV)

|  :  3101  mathetes  math-ay-tes'
| 
|   from 3129; a learner, i.e. pupil:--disciple.
|   see GREEK for 3129

As we see trusting in Jesus and trusting Jesus go hand-in-hand. Jesus has
already spoken, and Jesus' words still speak and are active. Do we trust His
words? Trusting His words and trusting Him go hand-in-hand. If we trust
Jesus, we will obey Him. If we obey Jesus, we will see His glory. If we see
see His glory, our faith in Him will increase.

We trust in God to take care of us, as He leads us.

Having believed in Jesus, having begun to trust in Jesus, we have become
obedient to Jesus. Jesus works on us as we trust in Him even before we
understand what He's doing, and we have become obedient because he commanded
us to trust Him:

  John 13:6-7 - He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my
  feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but
  afterward you will understand. (ESV)

We abide in Jesus when He washes us. When the Holy Spirit washes us, the Holy
Spirit helps us to put sin to death:

  John 13:8 - Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered
  him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. (ESV)

Peter believed/received/obeyed/trusted like a child of God (he cooperated) to
let Jesus wash him but it was Jesus doing the work:

  John 13:9 - Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only but also my
  hands and my head! (ESV)

Jesus' servants (people who obey Him) are found in him. Jesus' servants are
those who have been washed, and they ought to then wash:

  Psalms 34:22 - The LORD redeems the life of his servants; none of those who
  take refuge in him will be condemned. (ESV)

The Israelites didn't "work for God" as they obeyed God to walk through the
Red Sea. Walking in obedience is not the same as "working". The Israelites
were an actual part of the miracle of going through the Red Sea. The miracle
wasn't just the water splitting, the Israelites walking through it was also
miraculous. By obeying God, God sent them through the Red Sea.

In obeying God, God helps us:

  Joshua 1:9 - Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be
  frightened, and do not be dismayed, for the LORD your God is with you
  wherever you go. (ESV)

God gave Moses conditional power to split the sea if Moses was obedient. I
believe that's what God wants to do with us in terms of abiding in Christ and
God working through us. Jesus just wants us to believe Him and obey Him. I
believe Jesus wants us to both believe Him and obey Him:

  Exodus 14:14-16 - The LORD will fight for you, and you have only to be
  silent. The LORD said to Moses, Why do you cry to me? Tell the people of
  Israel to go forward. Lift up your staff, and stretch out your hand over
  the sea and divide it, that the people of Israel may go through the sea on
  dry ground. (ESV)

I just want to be clear that good works we do in obedience to Jesus are still
considered a gift to us. We work out what God has worked for. It's even a
gift to be in position of being able to do good works in service to Jesus
after He has washed us:

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

No-one can boast to God:

  I Corinthians 1:28-29 - God chose what is low and despised in the world,
  even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no
  human being might boast in the presence of God. (ESV)

Before God, no-one can boast of being justified by works done apart from God:

  Romans 4:2 - For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to
  boast about, but not before God. (ESV)

See even the Apostle Paul from my perspective has entertained the idea that a
person could be justified by works but that they cannot boast before God, and
I would say because they were saved by their work because they were obedient
to God and out of that obedient heart, they did what God had instructed them
to do to be saved:

  James 2:24 - You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith
  alone. (ESV)

Justification and redemption are a total gift:

  Romans 3:21-26 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

The redemption (ongoing sanctification) is granted as a gift through faith in
Jesus:

  Romans 3:24-25 - and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the
  redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation
  by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God's
  righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former
  sins. (ESV)

Justification by working-faith (obedience to the gospel producing works) and
justification by so-called 'faith alone' is, in my opinion, not a dichotomy,
because all the good works we do as a consequence of being redeemed are a
gift to us - us being in Him:

    • Eph 2:8 - For by grace you have been saved through faith (G4102
      pistis); and that not of yourselves, it is the gift (G1435 doron) of
      God; (NASB)
    • Eph 2:9 - not as a result of works (G2041 ergon), so that no one may
      boast. (NASB)
    • Eph 2:10 - For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good
      works (G2041 ergon), which God prepared beforehand so that we would
      walk in them. (NASB)

John Piper puts it this way: "The first act of saving faith justifies and the
subsequent ones justify too". That's an interesting theory, but it's also God
who justifies, not us, so we should let God be God, trust Jesus and serve
Him:

youtube.com: Though Our Faith May Falter @time: 8 min 52 sec
The faith to which God looks when He justifies us is a kind of faith which
perseveres by God's design so that He can look at that faith at it's first
twinkling awakening and say, "Not guilty. You are justified, accepted,
forgiven and the righteousness of my Son is yours on the basis of that
faith." And, He can look at any given point at the unfolding of that faith
throughout your life and say, "For this you are justified, and for this you
are justified and for this you are justified." So the continuance of faith is
the faith which justifies and the reason you can say, "I am and have been
justified", as Romans 5:1-2 does say "having been justified", is because that
perseverance is a property as it were contained in the authenticity of the
first act of saving faith.

  Romans 3:26 - It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that
  he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

By His grace we have to actually come into obeying Jesus to find life. Think
about what it means to obey Jesus: It's to walk in the Spirit, to abide in
Jesus' Spirit, to be obeying Jesus' commandments, to seek to follow the
pattern of life that He lived to be found in Him. You can abide in Jesus'
Spirit if you have faith in Him, believing in Him, believing, trusting and
obeying Him, knowing Him, and being found in Him!

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

Faith in Christ I believe means believing in Him and being obedient to Him,
having communion with Him, etc. becoming intimate with Him, following Him.
This isn't our own merit, but we still obey Jesus to be found in Him. In Him
we have Jesus' righteousness:

Jesus' servants (people who obey Him) are found in him. Jesus' servants are
those who have been washed, and they ought to then wash:

  Psalms 34:22 - The LORD redeems the life of his servants; none of those who
  take refuge in him will be condemned. (ESV)

  Matthew 16:25 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever
  loses his life for my sake will find it. (ESV)

We are instructed to work for God:

  II John 1:8 - Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have
  worked for, but may win a full reward. (ESV)

Once again, we are instructed to work for God:

  Colossians 3:23-25 - Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and
  not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as
  your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. For the wrongdoer will be
  paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality. (ESV)

Jesus has literally taught people that that if we love our enemies, do good
and lend, expecting nothing in return we will be rewarded and be sons of the
Most High. This shows that obedience to Jesus is just part of having faith in
Jesus:

  Luke 6:35-36 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting
  nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of
  the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful,
  even as your Father is merciful. (ESV)

The prophets, saints, and servants of Jesus will be rewarded:

  Revelation of John 11:18 - The nations raged, but your wrath came, and the
  time for the dead to be judged, and for rewarding your servants, the
  prophets and saints, and those who fear your name, both small and great,
  and for destroying the destroyers of the earth. (ESV)

  Ephesians 6:6 - not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as
  servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, (ESV)

We are slaves to Christ Jesus:

  Romans 6:16-18 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone
  as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But
  thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient
  from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,
  and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.
  (ESV)

As a result of being born of the Spirit and subsequent obedience to Jesus'
commandments has resulted in a huge amount of worldly resistance, and also
I've had to fight against a spirit of justification by law compliance, and
I've had to fight against a spirit which denies my sins were atoned for and
tries to get me to do good works for justification. I still do good works out
of obedience but I resist the spirit pressuring me to work for justification
(it is a very vindictive, Christ-denying spirit, and it is incredibly
persistent):

  Galatians 4:29 - But just as at that time he who was born according to the
  flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is
  now. (ESV)

I have no problem with explaining myself as the Apostle Paul also led by
example and used his own life experience as an example to teach others:

  II Timothy 4:7-8 - I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race,
  I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of
  righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on
  that Day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved his appearing.
  (ESV)

  Philippians 3:17-18 - Brothers, join in imitating me, and keep your eyes on
  those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many, of whom I
  have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of
  the cross of Christ. (ESV)

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now having been freed from sin and enslaved to God,
  you derive your benefit, resulting in sanctification, and the outcome,
  eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is
  eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (NASB)

Connecting Romans 6:22 to Hebrews 13:12, the result of being enslaved to God,
obeying God and Christian suffering, results in our sanctification.

Jesus' sacrifice outside Jerusalem is so that we might be sanctified through
His own blood and come into Jerusalem. I still think that there's nothing
wrong with bearing the reproach Jesus endured - in fact it's encouraged. I
think we bear His reproach in order to be sanctified and then call Jerusalem
our home:

  Hebrews 13:12-14 - So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to
  sanctify the people through his own blood. Therefore let us go to him
  outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured. For here we have no
  lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:12-13 - Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it
  comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to
  you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may
  also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. (ESV)

So to be a slave of righteousness serving Jesus results in sanctification and
also calling the Jerusalem above our mother and our home:

  Galatians 4:25-26 - Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia; she corresponds to
  the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. But the
  Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. (ESV)

  Galatians 4:27 - For it is written, Rejoice, O barren one who does not
  bear; break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor! For the children
  of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband.
  (ESV)

We are not children of the slave woman but we are children of the free woman:

  Galatians 4:28-31 - Now you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
  But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted
  him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. But what does
  the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the
  slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers,
  we are not children of the slave but of the free woman. (ESV)

Bible study
youtube.com: You Are a Child of the Free Woman: Galatians 4:21-31, Part 8
@time: 2 min 6 sec

So John Piper is taking the Apostle John's writing in II John 1:9 and saying
that Apostle John is warning against people talking about justification
through works, but I don't think that's what the Apostle John is talking
about. But I think it's important to affirm Lord Jesus's teaching. And we
should be corrected by the Lord's teaching. For example, in Mark 10:18, Jesus
affirmed that God is Good. Therefore when we read this, we must also be
sanctified by this truth, affirming and coming into agreement that God is
Good:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

  I Timothy 6:3-4 - If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree
  with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords
  with godliness, he is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He
  has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about words,
  which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, (ESV)

I think the Apostle John means that new believers need to go on to abide in
Jesus' teachings, and I suspect that John Piper may be interpreting the verse
the same way, but focusing on interpreting the Apostle John's verse to be
against justification by works - but I read II John 1:9 as saying we must
abide in the full set of teachings of Jesus and the Apostle John is warning
about people who oppose Jesus' teachings to love one another, forgive one
another, repent from sin, etc., and oppose the truth which is that Jesus has
come in the flesh.

  John 10:27-28 - My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
  me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will
  snatch them out of my hand. (ESV)

I feel like having love for Jesus is inseparable with believing Him and
believing in Him for one of Jesus' sheep:

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

  II John 1:5-10 - And now I ask you, dear lady—not as though I were writing
  you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning—that we
  love one another. And this is love, that we walk according to his
  commandments; this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the
  beginning, so that you should walk in it. For many deceivers have gone out
  into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the
  flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the antichrist. Watch yourselves, so
  that you may not lose what we have worked for, but may win a full reward.
  Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ,
  does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and
  the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not
  receive him into your house or give him any greeting, (ESV)

Noah's obedience, or Abraham's obedience, I think are just living by faith,
and that's how I reconcile James 2:14-26.

  Hebrews 11:7 - By faith Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet
  unseen, in reverent fear constructed an ark for the saving of his
  household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the
  righteousness that comes by faith. (ESV)

Obedience / living by faith is just working faith / walking by faith:

  James 2:14-26 - What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith
  but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is
  poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go
  in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them the things needed for
  the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have
  works, is dead. But someone will say, You have faith and I have works. Show
  me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my
  works. You believe that God is one; you do well. Even the demons
  believe—and shudder! Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that
  faith apart from works is useless? Was not Abraham our father justified by
  works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar? You see that faith was
  active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works; and the
  Scripture was fulfilled that says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted
  to him as righteousness—and he was called a friend of God. You see that a
  person is justified by works and not by faith alone. And in the same way
  was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the
  messengers and sent them out by another way? For as the body apart from the
  spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. (ESV)

Notes for James 2:14-26:

• Can that faith save him? - Good question.
• If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and
one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without
giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also
faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. - True. I believe a
person receives God's work in us by being obedient to Him.
• Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, faith apart from works is
useless? - I agree. That's why I think God saves us by working in us
while we are obedient to Him.
• faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his
works - AMEN. In Abraham's case, his faith was completed by his works.
• You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. - I
believe that Jesus has done the work that we may be justified by faith
alone with His works, and that Jesus, having first been perfectly
obedient Himself, works in us to save us, sanctify us as we are obedient
to Him, following Him.

Before God, no-one can boast of being justified by works done apart from God:

  Romans 4:2 - For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to
  boast about, but not before God. (ESV)

See even the Apostle Paul from my perspective has entertained the idea that a
person could be justified by works but that they cannot boast before God, and
I would say because they were saved by their work because they were obedient
to God and out of that obedient heart, they did what God had instructed them
to do to be saved:

  James 2:24 - You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith
  alone. (ESV)

Also, Jesus' own work on the cross is sufficient work for us to be justified
by faith alone without our own work, but that does not mean we should not
'work'/walk for God through obedience which is characteristic of faith, even
for our salvation, or be sanctified in the Truth through trusting obedience
to God, and arrive at the knowledge of the Truth, even that Jesus Christ is
the propitiation of our sin and works in us to save us.

  Philippians 2:12 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out
  (G2716 katergazomai) your own salvation with fear and trembling, (ESV)

Faith that from a good conscience with God produces Christ's love:

  I Corinthians 16:13-14 - Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like
  men, be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart
  and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

When James mentions "justification by works", he actually is referring to
justification by obedient faith (obedient faith is still faith):

  James 2:25 - And in the same way was not also Rahab the prostitute
  justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by
  another way? (ESV)

Hebrews 11:31 links obedience to works in James 2:25:

  Hebrews 11:31 - By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who
  were disobedient, because she had given a friendly welcome to the spies.
  (ESV)

Jesus bore our sins in His body on the tree so that we might die to sin and
live to righteousness. We are also supposed to live in the truth and in the
love of God, ourselves practicing the love of Christ, and entrust ourselves
to God, even when others make things more difficult.

  I Peter 2:22-24 - He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his
  mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return; when he suffered,
  he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges
  justly. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die
  to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed. (ESV)

You'll be able to see who has been healed by their fruits.

God is still very busy working:

  John 5:17 - But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I
  am working. (ESV)

We are God's workmanship:

  Ephesians 2:7-10 - so that in the coming ages he might show the
  immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For
  by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing;
  it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For
  we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God
  prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. (ESV)

We absolutely must have a response of love for God - we must abide in
Christ's love to abide in God.

Because God loved us first:

• The Apostle Paul endeavours to know Jesus ('makes it his own'. See Php
| 9-13 below) because Jesus made Paul His own
• To be found in Jesus is what Paul describes as the righteousness
from God that depends on faith
• We know Jesus by believing in Him and obeying His commandments, and
when we love and forgive we know God loved us and forgave us first
• We should love because He loved us first
• Romans 5:7-8 - For one will scarcely die for a righteous
person—though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die—
but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners,
Christ died for us. (ESV)
• We must forgive as we have been forgiven

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

The redemption in Christ Jesus is a gift, and is a substitutionary atonement
that is received through faith in Jesus, which is supposed to result in us
passing forward love and forgiveness, and putting sin to death.

As far as "obtaining the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ" goes, or sharing in
Jesus' holiness, a limited analogy may be that this works like a blood
transfusion, or a like Jesus' car battery recharging our car battery, that
should be received by faith, faith which includes the belief of faith and the
obedience of faith, such as obedience to the discipline of Christ, that
should yield the peaceful fruit of righteousness as we then seek to imitate
Christ, passing forward love and forgiveness and endeavoring to be holy.

Holiness is brought to completion in the fear of God:

  II Corinthians 7:1 - Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse
  ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to
  completion in the fear of God. (ESV)

  John Piper's aim in this sermon is that:

    • 1st: those of you who preach and teach the word of God would do so in a
      way that makes clear the effective connection between the sin bearing
      work of Christ and the sin killing work of the Christian
    • 2nd: that you would make clear the effective connection between
      canceled sin and conquered sin
    • 3rd: that you would make clear the effective connection between the
      horrors of Christ's suffering and the holiness of Christ's people
    • 4th: that you would make clear the release of people from guilt and how
      it effectively connects with the securing of their lives of
      righteousness
    • 5th: that you would make clear the effective connection between
      justification by his blood and progressive sanctification by that same
      blood, and
    • 6th: Finally, that you would make clear the effective connection
      between the the tearing off of the flesh of Christ in crucifixion and
      the tearing out of your eye in the battle against lust.

Referring to 1 Peter 1:18-20:

Quote by John Piper
"He does not say you were ransommed from guilt. He does not say you were
ransommed from condemnation. He does not say you were ransommed from satan.
He does not say you were ransommed from hell. He said you were ransommed from
ways. Live in holy conduct because He bought it with blood."

  I Peter 1:14-20 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy. And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to
  each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your
  exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from
  your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but
  with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or
  spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but was made
  manifest in the last times for your sake, (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"Conduct yourself in holiness because you know you were ransommed from
unholiness. You were ransommed from futile ways into holy ways."

Quote by John Piper
It's not enough to say that God paid the ransom for His wife - so God's wife
is kidnapped, she's across the plaza, and He's going to get her, for Himself,
and he pays an infinite price, and it's not as though she steps out free from
her captors and goes and shacks up with another man! That didn't happen at
the cross. It doesn't happen. He doesn't fail in His purchases. He's not
impotent. His blood is not ineffective. It was not in vain. The ransom bought
a new life for His people, a new holiness for His people. They will walk in
the way He bought. If they don't, they have no warrant to believe they're
His.

AMEN!!

If we keep His commandments, keep His works we will reign with Him:

  II Timothy 2:12-13 - if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny
  him, he also will deny us; if we are faithless, he remains faithful— for he
  cannot deny himself. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 2:26 - The one who conquers and who keeps my works until
  the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, (ESV)

I believe that becoming the righteousness of God is initially instantaneous
when we believe but going forward it also is cooperative as we live,
submitting to the righteousness of God (Jesus' righteousness) and then being
found in Jesus, letting Jesus wash us, and work in us, transform us, and that
a childlike trust in Jesus (a believing and obedient trust), following Jesus,
walking in faith, and behaving as one of God's children, following Jesus our
Lord and Saviour is how we receive and walk into the kingdom which is given
to us and that walking in a childlike faith in Jesus is how we have the
righteousness that is by faith. I believe we have righteousness because we
are found in Him, and He is our High Priest and or Lord and King, and
Saviour. Living by faith is a lifestyle to be found in Jesus and that's how
we have righteousness from Him, because we are found in Him and are being
perfected and sanctified like a branch getting healthier because it's
connected to Jesus. It does not mean we are able to displace Him as the head
of the body because we don't have righteousness apart from Him (as far as I
understand):

  II Corinthians 5:21-6:1 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no
  sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Working
  together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God
  in vain. (ESV)

Jesus carried His cross, bore our shame, bore our sin that we might become
the righteousness of God; that we might bear others' shame, and pass forward
love and forgiveness:

  I Peter 2:24 - He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we
  might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been
  healed. (ESV)

So working together with Jesus, and thanks to being born-again and empowered
by Jesus' spirit, Jesus helps us to put to death sin in our own body, forgive
those who we had a grudge with, do good works, etc. repent, be sanctified,
forgive as we have been forgiven, love as we have been loved:

  Hebrews 12:1-3 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. (ESV)

By His stripes we are healed, and then we live to serve Jesus:

  Isaiah 53:5 - But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for
  our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and
  with his stripes we are healed. (ESV)

Jesus washed out feet. Now we wash others' feet. A saint, having been
forgiven and love by Jesus passes forward this love and forgiveness and bears
other people's burdens:

  John 13:14-15 - If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet,
  you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example,
  that you also should do just as I have done to you. (ESV)

A saint, having been forgiven and love by Jesus passes forward this love and
forgiveness and bears other people's burdens:

  Galatians 6:2 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ. (ESV)

I believe we should have a noticable change of heart and behaviour as a
result of trusting obedient faith in Jesus:

  II Corinthians 5:21 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin,
  so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. (ESV)

We are healed by His wounds - a lot of Christians try to suppress the "We are
healed" bit. We should also notice that healing comes with stopping sinning.
Jesus bore our sins in His body on the tree so that we might forsake sin,
stop obeying it, and live righteous lives in holiness and doing good out of
obedience to God:

  I Peter 2:24 - He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we
  might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been
  healed. (ESV)

I think we should always be seeking the glory of our Jesus Christ, not
seeking our own glory. Personally, my motivations for writing this Bible
Study document, and for 'good works' etc. is simply because:

• I am remorseful for the sin which I've had in my life and want to be
healed so that I no longer serve sin, but instead I live to righteousness
(being obedient to God)
• I want to serve God, and I want to live in the truth
• I have a lot of joy in showing people that Jesus Christ is real
• I want to love Jesus. It seems to me like it's the reason for living
• I want my life to honour Jesus
• Jesus is worthy of all love, all praise, all glory
• I need Jesus
• I want to be found as a friend of Jesus

But God chose some to be saved through sanctification by the Spirit and
belief in the truth:

  II Thessalonians 2:13 - But we ought always to give thanks to God for you,
  brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to
  be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.

Jesus called us to sanctified (i.e. repent from sin, and live to God). We
seek the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Interestingly, we don't seek our own
glory, but Paul says that God chose us to be sanctified by the Spirit and
belief in the truth:

  II Thessalonians 2:14 - To this he called you through our gospel, so that
  you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

We seek the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ, not our own glory. We should aim
not to speak on our own authority, but instead to speak the Truth from God:

  John 7:18 - The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory,
  but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him
  there is no falsehood. (ESV)

  I don't want to speak about things I am not confident in affirming, such as
  monergism because I haven't even scratched the surface of the doctrines
  surrounding that -it's beyond my study. But I have a childlike trusting,
  obedient faith in Jesus, which is what Jesus wants of us I think. Something
  that gives me confidence before God is that I have been brought into
  obedience to Jesus' commandments in word and deed. Not just intellectually
  knowledgeable, and I have confidence because I have confidence that Jesus
  is working in my life). Yes, I believe that we should desire to cooperate
  with God and do the word of God. We want to be obedient and believing. We
  trust God. God's faithfulness is greater than our own. That's how it works.
  God is our life. God works through us and His love is made perfect in us
  and we love with the same love that Jesus loved us with. Love comes from
  God. Christ's love is not vain philosophy.

I believe the Holy Spirit can absolutely take over as this evangelist puts
it:

Amen
youtube.com: The Holy Spirit took over my preaching in Las Vegas and left me
in awe and trembling

  I Corinthians 3:9 - For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field,
  God's building. (ESV)

For sure, I just want to speak the truth from God, and I want to be
sanctified by the Truth, and I want to be corrected by the Truth:

  Ephesians 4:15-19 - Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up
  in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole
  body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped,
  when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds
  itself up in love. Now this I say and testify in the Lord, that you must no
  longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their minds. They are
  darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of
  the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart. They have
  become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to
  practice every kind of impurity. (ESV)

Seeking God in truth and not seeking glory from one another is a good place
to start in coming to believe. I guess that seeking the glory that comes from
the only God involves seeking to glorify God:

  John 5:44 - How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another
  and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? (ESV)

I believe we should have a noticable change of heart and behaviour as a
result of trusting obedient faith in Jesus:

  II Corinthians 5:21 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin,
  so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. (ESV)

We are healed by His wounds - a lot of Christians try to suppress the "We are
healed" bit. We should also notice that healing comes with stopping sinning.
Jesus bore our sins in His body on the tree so that we might forsake sin,
stop obeying it, and live righteous lives in holiness and doing good out of
obedience to God:

  I Peter 2:24 - He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we
  might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been
  healed. (ESV)

I don't think James contradicts Paul because I think faith alone is
sufficient but that working faith is fine "You'll know them by their
fruits.". Also it's God, not us, who justifies:

  Matthew 7:15-20 - Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's
  clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their
  fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? So,
  every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit.
  A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good
  fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into
  the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits. (ESV)

But I think that when we obey Jesus it's Jesus working.

Jesus worked:

  John 5:17 - But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I
  am working. (ESV)

  John 19:30 - When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is
  finished, and he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. (ESV)

Jesus is still working through us:

  Philippians 2:13 - for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work
  for his good pleasure. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Way Maker - Paul McClure | Moment @time: 4 min 12 sec

So when we obey Jesus' words and commandments, Jesus works in us:

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (ESV)

When we walk in trusting, believing, obedient faith, God works in us and to
deliver us and makes our paths straight for us:

  Philippians 1:6 - And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in
  you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

  Jude 1:21 - keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of
  our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. (ESV)

So we are saved by obeying Jesus:

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

  Hebrews 5:9 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, (ESV)

Quote from John Piper

Jesus has done everything necessary: He was loved and foreknown and chosen,
He appeared at the end of the times, He was crucified for sins, He was raised
from the dead, He was glorified at the Father's right hand, and now He is
sent by his Spirit into this world and he is doing his purposes to gather his
people and through him you have become believers in God.

You've been ransomed from a futile way of life by an infinitely valuable
price: namely, the blood of Jesus.

The command to lead your life in fear rises with the value of the ransom paid
to rescue you from the sin that some people try to fund with the ransom.

He was born to die and he died to rescue you from this afternoon's sinning.
And tomorrow's, as well as all the ones in the past.

We should not treat that ransom with contempt.

But I feel like a lot of people have a problem with salvation by obedience,
but it's totally Scriptural. Noah and the Israelites through the Red Sea and
the Apostle Thomas after following Jesus around for ages and finally arrived
at belief. And I think this is the correct teaching.

  Romans 10:17 - So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of
  Christ. (ESV)

Faith comes from hearing Jesus' words and we can hear a commandment of Jesus
such as 'love your enemies' and that faith can come from that, and it's Jesus
working through them when they hear Jesus' words and obey them, and I think a
person can be saved this way if they continue in Jesus' word.

  Luke 6:35 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing
  in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most
  High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. (ESV)

A person is justified when God justifies the person, not just because a
person says they are justified. So I think God's the justifier of a person's
faith and that both obedience and belief are parts of faith, and like Abraham
we should keep the faith until and beyond when we receive personal assurance
of justification from God.

Interlinear Bible
Romans 3:28

|  3049 [e]    1063 [e]  1344 [e]        4102 [e]
|  logizometha gar       dikaiousthai    pistei
|  λογιζόμεθα  γὰρ       δικαιοῦσθαι     πίστει
|  We reckon   therefore to be justified by faith
|  V-PIM/P-1P  Conj      V-PNM/P         N-DFS
| 
|  444 [e]     5565 [e]   2041 [e] 3551 [e]
|  anthrōpon   chōris     ergōn    nomou
|  ἄνθρωπον  , χωρὶς      ἔργων    νόμου  .
|   a man       apart from works    of the Law
|   N-AMS       Prep       N-GNP    N-GMS

But works of the law is different from works:

  Romans 3:28 - For we maintain that a man is justified by faith (G4102
  pistis) apart from works of the Law. (NASB)

|  :  4102  pistis  pis'-tis
| 
|   from 3982; persuasion, i.e. credence; moral conviction (of religious
|   truth, or the truthfulness of God or a religious teacher), especially
|   reliance upon Christ for salvation; abstractly, constancy in such
|   profession; by extension, the system of religious (Gospel) truth
|   itself:--assurance, belief, believe, faith, fidelity.
|   see GREEK for 3982

It's God who tests the faith, and God who justifies:

  II Corinthians 10:18 - For it is not the one who commends himself who is
  approved, but the one whom the Lord commends. (ESV)

And I do not believe the following verse necessarily is merely talking about
justification but also talking about being saved from falsehood, corruption,
demons, sin in our bodies and from the wrath of God, and also my definition
of faith includes obedience:

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved (sesōsmenoi) through
  faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result
  of works, so that no one may boast. (ESV)

sesōsmenoi (saved)
https://biblehub.com/greek/seso_smenoi_4982.htm

We don't justify ourselves. The lawyer here was desiring to justify himself.
God is the justifier. Jesus explains that the one who proved to be a
neighbour is the one who showed compassion for and took care of the helpless
person, taking care of them with mercy:

  Luke 10:25-37 - And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test,
  saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said to him,
  What is written in the Law? How do you read it? And he answered, You shall
  love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with
  all your strength and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself.
  And he said to him, You have answered correctly; do this, and you will
  live. But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my
  neighbor? Jesus replied, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho,
  and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and departed,
  leaving him half dead. Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and
  when he saw him he passed by on the other side. So likewise a Levite, when
  he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a
  Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he
  had compassion. He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and
  wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took
  care of him. And the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the
  innkeeper, saying, Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, I will
  repay you when I come back. Which of these three, do you think, proved to
  be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers? He said, The one who
  showed him mercy. And Jesus said to him, You go, and do likewise. (ESV)

See: 33.4.1

Polycarp 2:1
Wherefore gird up your loins and serve God in fear and truth, forsaking the
vain and empty talking and the error of the many, for that ye have believed
on Him that raised our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead and gave unto him
glory and a throne on His right hand; unto whom all things were made subject
that are in heaven and that are on the earth; to whom every creature that
hath breath doeth service; who cometh as judge of quick and dead; whose blood
God will require of them that are disobedient unto Him.

17.1. Walking in trusting faith in Jesus

I honestly don't know everything and I don't have all the answers. But I
think God is sanctifying me through faith. As we hold our faith, willing to
do God's will, and trusting Him, we are sanctified - cleaned, washed, and
things will become clearer. His spirit sanctifies us. His word sanctifies us.
We are sanctified as we hold our faith in Him.

Just keep trusting in, trusting Jesus, believing and obeying and treasuring
from the heart and I think things will become clearer. That's what I'm doing.

We trust Jesus (Yeshua), so we accept and treasure His words, so we trust in
Him and obey Him out of trust and He is our strength, and song and Yahweh
becomes our salvation. In trusting Jesus (Yeshua) we trust Jehovah (Yahweh)
who has sent Jesus (Yeshua). It's Jesus Christ who saves us. It's Yahweh who
saves us:

  Isaiah 12:1-3 - You will say in that day: I will give thanks to you, O LORD
  (H3068 Yhvh), for though you were angry with me, your anger turned away,
  that you might comfort me. Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust (H982
  batach), and will not be afraid; for the LORD GOD (H3068 Yhvh) is my
  strength (H5797 oz) and my song (H2176 zimrath), and he has become my
  salvation (H3444 yeshuah). With joy (H8342 sason) you will draw water
  (H4325 mayim) from the wells of salvation. (ESV)

  John 7:37-39 - On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up
  and cried out, If anyone thirsts (G1372 dipsaó), let him come to me and
  drink (G4095 pinó). Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuó) in me, as the
  Scripture has said, Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now
  this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to
  receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not
  yet glorified. (ESV)

  John 7:38 - The [one] believing in Me as has said the Scripture Rivers out
  of the belly of him will flow of water living (Interlinear)

God is our #1 treasure. Family in Christ is also treasure - we love one
another as ourselves as companded. We must treasure family in Christ. Also
God wants all people to be saved. We are called to agape treasure all people,
even our enemies. We want them to be saved too:

  Leviticus 19:9-18 - When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not
  reap your field right up to its edge, neither shall you gather the
  gleanings after your harvest. And you shall not strip your vineyard bare,
  neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard. You shall
  leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am the LORD your God. You
  shall not steal; you shall not deal falsely; you shall not lie to one
  another. You shall not swear by my name falsely, and so profane the name of
  your God: I am the LORD. You shall not oppress your neighbor or rob him.
  The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the
  morning. You shall not curse the deaf or put a stumbling block before the
  blind, but you shall fear your God: I am the LORD. You shall do no
  injustice in court. You shall not be partial to the poor or defer to the
  great, but in righteousness shall you judge your neighbor. You shall not go
  around as a slanderer among your people, and you shall not stand up against
  the life of your neighbor: I am the LORD. You shall not hate your brother
  in your heart, but you shall reason frankly with your neighbor, lest you
  incur sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge
  against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as
  yourself: I am the LORD. (ESV)

Anyway, we should just keep trusting the Lord and maintain a good conscience
before God, follow Him faithfully, trust Him and treasure his words and
commandments. Love as he loved, walk as he walked. Like Peter on the water,
we keep our eyes on Jesus - the eyes of our heart, and God takes care of us:

  Matthew 14:28-33 - And Peter answered him, Lord, if it is you, command me
  to come to you on the water. He said, Come. So Peter got out of the boat
  and walked on the water and came to Jesus. But when he saw the wind, he was
  afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out, Lord, save me. Jesus
  immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying to him, O you
  of little faith, why did you doubt? And when they got into the boat, the
  wind ceased. And those in the boat worshiped him, saying, Truly you are the
  Son of God. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:18-20 - This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in
  accordance with the prophecies previously made about you, that by them you
  may wage the good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience. By
  rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith, among whom are
  Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may
  learn not to blaspheme. (ESV)

The other thing is, we should put out faith on the Truth in the Bible because
dreams and visions are very often lying:

  Ezekiel 13:6 - They have seen false visions and lying divinations. They
  say, Declares the LORD, when the LORD has not sent them, and yet they
  expect him to fulfill their word. (ESV)

I get lied to in dreams and visions from the devil very often, even through
other people. This is why it helps to do a good Bible study. So I trust what
God has spoken through Bible:

  Ephesians 4:11-14 - And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the
  evangelists, the pastors and teachers, to equip the saints for the work of
  ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the
  unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature
  manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that
  we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried
  about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in
  deceitful schemes. (ESV)

Spiritual dreams and visions happen, and God can speak to us through a dream,
but the devil can also lie to us through a dream, so don't trust all your
dreams. Most of the dreams I get I don't believe. So this is one reason why
we should maintain a good conscience with God, because we don't want to be
misled by demons:

  I John 3:22-23 - and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep
  his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment, that
  we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another, just
  as he has commanded us. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:18-20 - This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in
  accordance with the prophecies previously made about you, that by them you
  may wage the good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience. By
  rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith, among whom are
  Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may
  learn not to blaspheme. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Bob Fitts- Jesus Christ Is Lord {Medley} {Hosanna! Music} @time:
5 min 43 sec

Song
youtube.com: JESUS CHRIST IS LORD {Lyrics} | New Wine {@officialnewwine}

17.1.1. To be "under the law" is to "rely" on your own perfect obedience to the
law for justification, life and salvation

It's relying on the works of the law which puts a person on under a curse.
That doesn't mean we forsake the law. We just don't rely on it for our
justification, life and salvation:

  Galatians 3:10 - For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse;
  for it is written, Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things
  written in the Book of the Law, and do them. (ESV)

The curse of the law (which is the condemnation which arises from imperfect
law compliance) is no longer a problem for us by having faith in Jesus, Jesus
has taken that curse and paid for it with His blood:

  Galatians 3:13-14 - Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by
  becoming a curse for us—for it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged
  on a tree— so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to
  the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.
  (ESV)

• What does it mean to be under the law? - Ask the Pastor

  To be "under the law" is to "rely" on [your own perfect obedience to] the
  law for justification, life and salvation.

  To be "under the law" is to be condemned in Adam, rather than justified in
  Christ.

  All unbelievers, both Jews and Gentiles, are "under the law," but all
  believers in both Testaments are "under grace" (Rom 6:14) in Christ, who
  came to "redeem those who were under the law" (Gal 4:5).

  True believers keep the good law of God in faith, under grace, as an
  expression of love to God and others because of so great a salvation.

  They don't rely on the law to save them, but neither do they reject its
  authority or goodness.

  Though they can never keep the law perfectly, they try to follow the law as
  an expression of faith in God and love to Him.

Either way, it's still important to accept Jesus when presented with Jesus.

To be regarded as a child of Abraham, a person must fall into one of 2
categories:

• walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he
was circumcised, I believe with respect to having faith in Jesus Christ,
but I also this likely counts to adherents of the law of God (i.e. the
circumcised) who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that Abraham had
before he was circumcised
• John 8:39 - They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to
them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what
Abraham did, (ESV)
• faith in Jesus Christ:
• Galatians 3:7-9 - Know then that it is those of faith who are the
sons of Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would
justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to
Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then,
those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of
faith. (ESV)

We have believe Jesus and to trust Jesus. When Jesus says He is the Son of
God, we must believe it because we trust Him. Likewise when He commands us to
repent from sinning we should agree with Jesus and be obedient:

  John 16:8-9 - And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin
  and righteousness and judgment: concerning sin, because they do not believe
  in me; (ESV)

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

I believe this also counts to those who are of the "real/spiritual
circumcision". After being born-again of the Spirit, it seems natural to want
to obey and trust God the way Abraham did and walk in works of faith like
Abraham:

  Philippians 3:3 - For we are the real circumcision, who worship by the
  Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh—
  (ESV)

  Colossians 2:11-12 - In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision
  made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the
  circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which
  you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God,
  who raised him from the dead. (ESV)

17.1.2. I affirm we are free in Christ Jesus, enslaved to God, and have victory
over death

  Romans 8:2 - For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ
  Jesus from the law of sin and death. (ESV)

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now having been freed from sin and enslaved to God,
  you derive your benefit, resulting in sanctification, and the outcome,
  eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is
  eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (NASB)

So this morning <2024-05-12 Sun> I got a picture of John Piper in my mind
with this Bible verse, and so I googled it and found this tweet a few days
ago. Also, this morning I had two other dreams:

Awesome:

• https://twitter.com/JohnPiper/status/1784160580569375072

|  John Piper
|  @JohnPiper
|  God gives us the victory over death through our Lord Jesus Christ.

  I Corinthians 15:57-58 - But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory
  through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brothers, be
  steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing
  that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. (ESV)

|  No labor in vain in the Lord.
|  10:00 PM · Apr 27, 2024

AMEN!!

Also, it looks like John Piper has another talk on this:

• youtube.com: The Jerusalem Above Is Free: Galatians 4:21-31, Part 5

  Galatians 4:22-23 - For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a
  slave woman and one by a free woman. But the son of the slave was born
  according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through
  promise. (ESV)

  Galatians 4:30-31 - But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the slave
  woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with
  the son of the free woman. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave
  but of the free woman. (ESV)

In Christ Jesus there is freedom from things which were bad for us, including
selfishness, condemnation, slavery to sin and death, and feeling like we're
not good enough for God. There is freedom from anything that tries to hinder
us from obeying God in truth:

  I Peter 2:16 - Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a
  cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. (ESV)

God accepts those who serve Christ. We come under Jesus' banner, and His
righteousness, but we still follow after Him and serve Him in word and deed:

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

We are freed from, for example, making the worries of the world our first
thought in the day such as thinking always in terms of "will I have enough
money, for example", to instead, with the Holy Spirit in us, thinking
correctly, having joy in being able to live out the great commandments in
actuality, to be able to love God, I believe with our whole heart, soul, mind
and strength and to love our neighbour as ourselves, and as we abide in Jesus
Christ, focused on Jesus as our Pearl of Great Price, obeying God in word and
deed, passing-forward Christ's love to others, the blood of Jesus cleanses us
from all sin:

  II Corinthians 3:17 - Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of
  the Lord is, there is freedom. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:1-6 - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore,
  and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look: I, Paul, say to you
  that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I
  testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to
  keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified
  by the law; you have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by
  faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in
  Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything,
  but only faith working through love. (ESV)

We have been ransomed from our futile ways, so that our ways may change, and
we love God because He loved us first. Therefore, be holy! Obey God:

  I Peter 1:16-22 - since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy.
  And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each
  one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your
  exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from
  your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but
  with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or
  spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but was made
  manifest in the last times for your sake, who through him are believers in
  God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith
  and hope are in God. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the
  truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure
  heart, (ESV)

We are redeemed from lawless behaviour, God purifies us with the blood of
Jesus and we do good deeds out of a corrected will to now do good deeds
instead of lawless deeds because Jesus loved us and gave us Himself:

  Titus 2:14 - who gave Himself for us to redeem us from every lawless deed,
  and to purify for Himself a people for His own possession, zealous for good
  deeds. (NASB)

Jesus tasted death for us. Since we are saved from death, and from the law of
sin and death, we walk by the Spirit now and try to imitate Christ, empowered
with His Spirit to help us do that:

  Hebrews 2:9 - But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the
  angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering
  of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone.
  (ESV)

  Romans 8:12-13 - So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to
  live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh you
  will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you
  will live. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 3:9 - For if there was glory in the ministry of
  condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory.
  (ESV)

The reason we do our good deeds is not as if we are trying to earn our
acceptance from God all over again, but walking by the Spirit which we have
received, we do them out of Christ-defined love because we want to pass
forward the love of God:

  Galatians 5:1 - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore,
  and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. (ESV)

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

Believing in Jesus and obeying Jesus go hand in hand. Believing in Jesus,
obeying Jesus, trusting in Jesus, His words and promises, are all in the
heart and not the head. I'm going to keep trying to do all of those things,
and not make any sweeping statements about free will:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

Jesus' commandments are all about selfless love. We must abide in Jesus'
teaching and believe. It's imperative that as we go ahead, we must abide in
the teaching of Christ. Confessing the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh,
and walking according to Jesus' commandments go hand in hand:

  II John 1:6-9 - And this is love, that we walk according to his
  commandments; this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the
  beginning, so that you should walk in it. For many deceivers have gone out
  into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the
  flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the antichrist. Watch yourselves, so
  that you may not lose what we have worked for, but may win a full reward.
  Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ,
  does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and
  the Son. (ESV)

17.2. God justifies even ungodly people who have faith in Jesus

We have faith in God by having faith in Jesus and by having faith in Jesus we
may be justified even though we are ungodly.

God justifies who has faith in Jesus.

https://www.samstorms.org/all-articles/post/are-we-justified-by-faith-or-by-works-yes---james-214-26

There is a way of doing the law that is by faith:

  Romans 2:13 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before
  God, but the doers (4163. poiétés) of the law who will be justified. (ESV)

I'm sure that James would be referring to what Paul refers to in Romans
| 11-12:

  James 2:24 - You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith
  alone. (ESV)

  Romans 9:30-32 - What shall we say, then? That Gentiles who did not pursue
  righteousness have attained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith;
  but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not
  succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith,
  but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling
  stone, (ESV)

  Romans 4:11-12 - He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the
  righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The
  purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being
  circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to
  make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but
  who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had
  before he was circumcised. (ESV)

Firstly, God owns everything. Whatever we give God, he already owned. Neither
do we give God wages as if we were the previous owner of our gift. And we
don't give God advice:

  Romans 11:34-36 - For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been
  his counselor? Or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? For
  from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory
  forever. Amen. (ESV)

We just depend on and trust and hope on God to justify us, to commend us, to
give us mercy, and we simply follow Jesus and have peace with God because we
believe in Jesus, and in believing and obeying Jesus we have the hope of
being justified by faith in Jesus:

  Romans 9:16 - So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God,
  who has mercy. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:1-2 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their
  commendation. (ESV)

  John Piper - "Faith is the baking our hope on the mercy of God."

We were saved in hopeful faith:

  Romans 8:23-25 - And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the
  firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption
  as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now
  hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we
  hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. (ESV)

But God is just to take into consideration our work:

  Hebrews 6:10-12 - For God is not so unjust as to overlook your work and the
  love that you showed for his sake in serving the saints, as you still do.
  And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness to have the full
  assurance of hope until the end, so that you may not be sluggish, but
  imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 10:10 - no bag for your journey, nor two tunics nor sandals nor a
  staff, for the laborer deserves his food. (ESV)

My best understanding of Romans 4:4 is: "The person who works receives wages,
but the wages are not a gift, but the person does receive reward which is due
for his work." - But that's not good enough. We need to accept the gift of
salvation from God. So working is not good enough, we must submit to the
righteousness of God and accept the gift for forgiveness because we don't
deserve the gift of Salvation what God has given us as a gift, by the
shedding of Jesus Christ's blood.

  Romans 4:4 - Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift
  but as his due.

However, the work we produce doesn't justify us before God (it doesn't clear
us from being guilty of sin before God). We still need to have faith on God
to justify us even though we are ungodly, due to the atonement for our sin by
Christ's blood.

We must have faith in Jesus to be justified by faith. God justifies the
person who trusts in Jesus and since we trust Jesus we should be doers of
Christ's law (which is not outside the law of God, so we are doers of the
law), and God justifies the person with the blood of Jesus. If we're trusting
in Jesus then we're trusting in God who justifies the ungodly. We're not
trusting in God to justify our ungodliness, but to justify us as we keep our
faith in Jesus:

  Romans 2:13-16 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous
  before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. For when
  Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they
  are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show
  that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience
  also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse
  them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of
  men by Christ Jesus. (ESV)

God justifies the person who has faith in Jesus:

  Romans 3:21-26 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

Before accepting God's forgiveness yourself, submitting to the righteousness
of God, believing that you were in need of God's forgiveness and accepting
that Jesus' blood has atoned for our sin and placing our faith in Jesus so
that God may justify us, no good work of ours could atone for our sin:

  Isaiah 64:6 - We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our
  righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and
  our iniquities, like the wind, take us away. (ESV)

The "Our Father" prayer applies to those who are actually children of God:

  Matthew 6:8-15 - Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need
  before you ask him. Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be
  your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we
  also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but
  deliver us from evil. For if you forgive others their trespasses, your
  heavenly Father will also forgive you, but if you do not forgive others
  their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. (ESV)

If a son of Abraham repents from sin and forgives (return stolen goods) they
can have salvation:

  Luke 19:1-10 - He entered Jericho and was passing through. And there was a
  man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich. And he was
  seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not,
  because he was small of stature. So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a
  sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way. And when Jesus
  came to the place, he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, hurry and come
  down, for I must stay at your house today. So he hurried and came down and
  received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all grumbled, He has gone
  in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said
  to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if
  I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said
  to him, Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of
  Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. (ESV)

We can be sons of Abraham through faith in Jesus. So if we believe in Jesus,
repent and forgive, we can have salvation:

  Galatians 3:6-9 - just as Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him
  as righteousness? Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of
  Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles
  by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall
  all the nations be blessed. So then, those who are of faith are blessed
  along with Abraham, the man of faith. (ESV)

We ultimately need God's forgiveness through faith in Jesus, and so we need
to come to realise our spiritual bankruptcy before God and cry out to Him to
forgive us as we desire to turn a new leaf and walk in the truth, and God can
save us.

Self-righteousness has no place in asking God to be forgiven and justified by
faith in Jesus. The atonement made by God with Jesus' blood is what has
purchased God to be the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. God does
the justification. We do the "having faith in Jesus". God does the grafting
(the vineyard work):

  Romans 4:5-7 - And to the one who does not work but trusts him who
  justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, just as David
  also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness
  apart from works: Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: The Hands of Jesus | Billy Graham Classic @time: 11 min 43 sec

We must be able to accept that our gifts which we give to God will never be
good enough without the atoning sacrifice of Jesus, and we need to receive
the gift of Salvation which God has offered us. God gives that justification
and grants repentance to life for those put their faith in Jesus. We need a
penitently obedient heart,. We just put our faith in Jesus and continue in
faith in Jesus.

  I John 1:9 - If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
  our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. (ESV)

For the person who does not work but trusts God who justifies the ungodly,
his faith is counted as righteousness:

  Mark 11:25 - And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything
  against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you
  your trespasses. (ESV)

I'm trusting God wholeheartedly to be justified because of Christ's finished
work on the cross, and placing my faith in Jesus (obedient, trusting,
believing faith in Jesus) and hoping for God's justification.

However, who am I to restrict God? God may justify and save whom He will:

  Acts 2:21 - And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name
  of the Lord shall be saved. (ESV)

  Romans 10:20 - Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those
  who did not seek me; I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me.
  (ESV)

  Romans 2:13 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before
  God, but the doers (4163. poiétés) of the law who will be justified. (ESV)

There is justification by faith is for anyone who trusts God for the
forgiveness of their sins through Jesus' finished work on the cross as they
place their faith in Jesus and follow Jesus by belief and obedience. I don't
deny that to other people. But we are trusting God, not trusting on the work
alone without trusting/believing/obeying/loving God. What I mean is, God
justifies the one who has faith in Jesus. We believe and obey Jesus, loving
one another as He loved us, but in the knowledge that God has loved us first
by paying the price for our sin with Jesus' blood:

  Romans 3:26 - It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that
  he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

I'm unsure if the following applies for justification (it may be that it is
meant in a different context), but in some sense, forgiving others is still
required if someone wants God to forgive them:

  Mark 11:25 - And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything
  against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you
  your trespasses. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:12-15 - and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our
  debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For if
  you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive
  you, but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your
  Father forgive your trespasses. (ESV)

Nevertheless, I forgive everyone, and hold no grudges.

17.3. Obedient action including seeking God in faith (trusting God's words and
seeking)

I believe that obedient action which includes seeking God is an important
part of faith.

I believe obedience is intrinsic to faith, actually.

True faith is always obedient; faith is always prepared to obey more:

  John 7:17- If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority.

Obedient action is not dead works, and I believe that obedient action is just
working faith.

Being disobedient to Jesus means disbelieving in Jesus:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in the Son has eternal life;
  whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall not see life, but the
  wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

  Romans 4:2 - For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to
  boast about, but not before God.

Paul doesn't deny that Abraham could have been justified by works, but he
claims that Abraham doesn't have anything to boast about before God. AMEN!!

Because he offered nothing to God through his work other than what was asked
of him.

Jesus was perfectly faithful to God by being obedient:

  Philippians 2:8 - And being found in human form, he humbled himself by
  becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. (ESV)

  Romans 9:15-16 - For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have
  mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then it
  depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy. (ESV)

AMEN!! But that doesn't mean human will or exertion cannot be utilised by
God.

God rewards faith and may choose to reveal Himself after a while serving God
in faith instead of immediately.

  Matthew 25:19 - Now after a long time the master of those servants came and
  settled accounts with them.

  Acts 20:35 - In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this
  way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he
  himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.

17.4. Obedience belongs in faith

• Firstly, obedience is a heart attitude, so a person can have obedient
faith without any work.
• Psalms 119:34 - Give me understanding, that I may keep your law and
observe it with my whole heart. (ESV)
• Secondly, obedient action is nothing to boast about before God, because
God commanded you to do it.
• Romans 4:2 - For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something
to boast about, but not before God. (ESV)
• Thirdly, "working for God" is as step beyond obedient action.
• Paul doesn't claim his full rights in the gospel (even rights shown
by God's precepts in God's law) that He might receive reward from
God for going beyond the call of His duty:
• I Corinthians 9:12,9:15-18 - If others share this rightful claim on
you, do not we even more? Nevertheless, we have not made use of this
right, but we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way
of the gospel of Christ. But I have made no use of any of these
rights, nor am I writing these things to secure any such provision.
For I would rather die than have anyone deprive me of my ground for
boasting. For if I preach the gospel, that gives me no ground for
boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to me if I do not
preach the gospel! For if I do this of my own will, I have a reward,
but not of my own will, I am still entrusted with a stewardship.
What then is my reward? That in my preaching I may present the
gospel free of charge, so as not to make full use of my right in the
gospel. (ESV)

In God's mercy He has shown us the Way to be reconciled with Him. He has
given us Jesus, and we just need to have faith in Him. He has told us what to
believe and what to do, and we can choose to be obedient in believing and
acting or to not be obedient - to be disobedient.

Jesus is the author of our faith, so having faith is grace from God, and even
if works are working with our faith, it's all by grace and we still can't
boast before God because our faith and our works are all gifted to us from
God.

We're supposed to do good works of faith by Jesus' power so that Jesus' name
is glorified - and those works done in Jesus' power are entirely given by
grace to us:

  II Thessalonians 1:11-12 - To this end we always pray for you, that our God
  may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good
  and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus
  may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God
  and the Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

For example, Noah's works of building the ark was given to Him by God. God
even outlined every detail. Noah acted obediently to God's instruction.

  Hebrews 12:1-2 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God.

• Obedience belongs inside faith because
• God commanded it and complying is not really bringing anything to
God which He hasn't told you to bring to Him.
• So it's just acting in faith
• If God commands you to build an ark, and you build it exactly
as specified, is that considered dead works? No, it's just
doing exactly what God said. It's faith.
• If God commands you to wait 5 days before going into battle but
you think 8 days would be better, thinking God needs the extra
time so you can be more prepared so you wait 8 days then that
is no longer faith because it's disobedience.
• Abraham was commanded to offer Isaac as a sacrifice, and
Abraham did offer Isaac out of faithful obedience.
• Genesis 22:2 - He said, Take your son, your only son
Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and
offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the
mountains of which I shall tell you.
• James 2:22 - You see that faith was active along with his
works, and faith was completed by his works;
• But if Abraham thought he could get even more rewards from God
by trying the same thing again and putting Isaac on the altar
again without God even commanding it, then that is like trying
to justify yourself by doing dead works (i.e. deeds without
faith).
• Choosing to obey God's commandments even when no-one is watching
(aside from God) is having faith in God.
• For example, not stealing from your employer.
• Therefore, there is a way of abiding by God's commandments
which is faith and not works.
• To not steal is to love God and have faith in God.
• Seeking God in action belongs in faith because:
• When someone wills to do God's will, they come to know the truth
• John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know
whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my
own authority. (ESV)
• When someone has faith, they believe that God exists and that in
seeking God, God rewards them:
• Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please
him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he
exists and that he rewards those who seek him.

Salvation is the gift, and faith implies an obedient heart. Works can be dead
works when they're not done in faith. Faith is what justifies. But faith
works. Faith requires obedience to God. Faithless works do not justify:

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

With an obedient heart, a person will receive revelation as they hear the
teaching of Jesus.

A person must be at least willing to do His will - obedience is at the
essence of faith:

  John 7:17 - If anyone is willing to do His will, he will know of the
  teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from Myself.

Therefore, faith quickly progresses into good work, serving the living God:

  Hebrews 9:14 - how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the
  eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our
  conscience from dead works to serve the living God.

Those who's Father is God love Jesus, and will to do the will of God:

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

But those who's father is the devil lie out of their own character - they
mean to lie when they lie, and they will to do the devil's desires:

  John 8:44 - You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your
  father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to
  do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he
  speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
  (ESV)

'Believing in rewards from God for seeking Him' belongs in faith, or it's not
faith anymore, even in regards to justifying faith.

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him.

  Hebrews 11:24-26 - By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be
  called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to be mistreated with
  the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin. He
  considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of
  Egypt, for he was looking to the reward.

We should pursue Jesus Christ similarly. God commanded it:

  Mark 9:7 - And a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the
  cloud, This is my beloved Son; listen to him.

  Luke 9:35 - And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my Son, my
  Chosen One; listen to him!

  1 Timothy 1:15-17 - The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full
  acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom
  I am the foremost. But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the
  foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to
  those who were to believe (G4100 pisteuo) in him for eternal life. To the
  King of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever
  and ever. Amen. (ESV)

17.5. The type of work that is good - works done in faith

We are redeemed to be purified and to perform good works:

  Titus 2:14 - who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and
  to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for
  good works. (ESV)

We've been created in Christ Jesus for good works:

  Ephesians 2:10 - For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for
  good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
  (ESV)

We're not being justified by our works - we've already been redeemed, but we
do works out of love for Jesus, and out of ongoing faith, ongoing obedience:

  Titus 3:8 - The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these
  things, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote
  themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for
  people. (ESV)

Talk by
youtube.com: How Christianity Is Different From Every Religion

youtube.com: John Lennox: How do I choose which religion to follow? @time: 8
min 12 sec

You've heard about my wife. Well, over fifty years ago, I saw this vision in
Cambridge, so I decided I'd like to marry her. So I came to her one day and I
had a little present wrapped up for her. It was a cookbook. So I said, "I'd
like to marry you, Sally. Now the condition would be this: Let's look at page
147 - it's apple cake, and here are the laws for making apple cake. Thou
shalt take some what's flour, thou shall take some what sugar, and there you
are. Now, here's the way it's gonna be: If you keep these laws for the next
forty years, I think about accepting you. If you don't, you can go back to
your mother."

But, look why are you laughing? That is what many of you sitting here think
about God. And you would never insult a fellow human being by basing a
relationship on merit. You wouldn't. And so my marriage, it's been good, why?
Because my wife is not cooking in order to gain my acceptance. She likes
cooking because she's got it. And the wonderful thing about Christianity is
precisely that. It's not religion in that sense, it's a relationship.

Christianity is a relationship, like a marriage:

• Acceptance comes at the beginning; Jesus gives us the benefit of the
doubt. Just start serving Jesus in faith
• We must still forgive and love our family in Christ. This isn't
'work', but it is obedience, and it is a required heart attitude
• Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and
approved by men. (ESV)
• Salvation is based on Jesus' merit but also on our working-out of that
free salvation gift with hope, faith, repentance and obedience
• We must have a response of love for Jesus
• John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is
who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I
will love him and manifest myself to him. (ESV)
• John 16:27 - for the Father himself loves you, because you have
loved me and have believed that I came from God. (ESV)
• In whatever we do, we should be serving the Lord Jesus Christ
• I Corinthians 10:31 - So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you
do, do all to the glory of God. (ESV)
• Colossians 3:17 - And whatever you do, in word or deed, do
everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the
Father through him. (ESV)
• I Corinthians 16:14 - Let all that you do be done in love. (ESV)
• Romans 12:9 - Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to
what is good. (ESV)

The Holy Spirit still goes to those who obey Jesus:

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us. (ESV)

It's extremely important to have a response of love for Jesus, and to do the
good works which we have been created in Christ Jesus to do, but Jesus also
saves people who turn out to be unthankful:

  Luke 17:11-19 - On the way to Jerusalem he was passing along between
  Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers,
  who stood at a distance and lifted up their voices, saying, Jesus, Master,
  have mercy on us. When he saw them he said to them, Go and show yourselves
  to the priests. And as they went they were cleansed. Then one of them, when
  he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice; and
  he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a
  Samaritan. Then Jesus answered, Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine?
  Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner?
  And he said to him, Rise and go your way; your faith has made you well.
  (ESV)

When we abide in Jesus by belief and obedience, we bear much fruit, but
outside of Jesus, we can't actually do anything:

  John 15:5 - I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I
  in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do
  nothing. (ESV)

We don't want lazy, cowardly, disobedient faith:

  Matthew 25:24-26 - He also who had received the one talent came forward,
  saying, Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow,
  and gathering where you scattered no seed, so I was afraid, and I went and
  hid your talent in the ground. Here you have what is yours. But his master
  answered him, You wicked and slothful servant! You knew that I reap where I
  have not sowed and gather where I scattered no seed? (ESV)

  Luke 12:48 - But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating,
  will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much
  will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will
  demand the more. (ESV)

It's imperative that as we go ahead, we must abide in the teaching of Christ,
or we won't have God (Jehovah God), and God is love and love comes from God,
so we need to abide in Christ's teachings, by belief and by obedience. For
example, in Mark 10:18, Jesus affirmed that God is Good. Therefore when we
read this, we must also be sanctified by this truth, affirming and coming
into agreement that God is Good. Also, Jesus commanded us to love one another
as He loved us John 13:34-35:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

Obedience is good:

  Psalms 40:6-8 - Sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but you have
  given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin offering you have not
  required. Then I said, Behold, I have come; in the scroll of the book it is
  written of me: I desire to do your will, O my God; your law is within my
  heart. (ESV)

'Working' for God is OK when it's done in faith:

  James 2:22-23 - You see that faith was active along with his works, and
  faith was completed by his works; and the Scripture was fulfilled that
  says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness—and
  he was called a friend of God. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 3:9 - For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field,
  God's building. (ESV)

Obedience is intrinsic to faith:

  Hebrews 11:31 - By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who
  were disobedient, because she had given a friendly welcome to the spies.

And after a time, the LORD visits and judges on deeds, and on words:

  Revelation of John 3:2-3 - Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is
  about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my
  God. So remember what you have received and heard; and keep it, and repent.
  Therefore if you do not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not
  know at what hour I will come to you.

Jesus judges on deeds and on words (possibly on the way you judge others, the
same standard is measured back to you; also important is confessing Jesus
Christ before others):

  Matthew 12:35-37 - The good person out of his good treasure brings forth
  good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil. I
  tell you, on the day of judgment people will give account for every
  careless word they speak, for by your words you will be justified, and by
  your words you will be condemned.

  Matthew 25:19 - Now after a long time the master of those servants came and
  settled accounts with them.

  Jeremiah 17:10 - I the LORD (Yahweh) search the heart and test the mind, to
  give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds.
  (ESV)

|  3068 [e]
|  Yah·weh
|  יהוה
|  Yahweh
|  N‑proper‑ms

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me.

  Revelation of John 3:21 - The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit
  with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on
  his throne. (ESV)

  Matthew 25:21 - His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful
  servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much.
  Enter into the joy of your master.

Firstly, obedient children are children who hear the word of God, believe and
love God, and we should be holy in all our conduct if we call on the LORD God
who judges impartially according to each one's deeds:

  I Peter 1:14-19 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy. And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to
  each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your
  exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from
  your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but
  with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or
  spot. (ESV)

  Ecclesiastes 12:13-14 - The end of the matter; all has been heard. Fear God
  and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God will
  bring every deed into judgment, with every secret thing, whether good or
  evil.

Talk
youtube.com: Ecclesiastes: fear God and obey His commandments- the only hope
for a good life

We must follow the way righteousness, repenting from sin, and following Jesus
Christ. Jesus Christ is Lord:

  II Peter 2:1-3 - But false prophets also arose among the people, just as
  there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in
  destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing
  upon themselves swift destruction. And many will follow their sensuality,
  and because of them the way of truth will be blasphemed. And in their greed
  they will exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is
  not idle, and their destruction is not asleep.

  II Peter 2:20-22 - For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the
  world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are
  again entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for
  them than the first. For it would have been better for them never to have
  known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the
  holy commandment delivered to them. What the true proverb says has happened
  to them: The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing
  herself, returns to wallow in the mire.

17.5.1. Since Jesus has made the way, we serve God with good works. We have
received mercy. We should then be merciful:

  I Peter 2:10 - Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people;
  once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy.

  Luke 6:36 - Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. (ESV)

17.5.2. Works must serve God, submitted to the righteousness that comes from
God

We have to submit to God's righteousness, accepting that we are sinners, and
accept God's forgiveness through the atonement that comes through Jesus, and
be obedient to God through being obedient to Jesus.

  Mark 2:17 - And when Jesus heard it, he said to them, Those who are well
  have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the
  righteous, but sinners.

  Luke 5:32 - I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to
  repentance.

  Romans 10:3-4 - For, being ignorant of the righteousness that comes from
  God, and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's
  righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to
  everyone who believes (G4100 pisteuo has faith in Jesus). (ESV)

  Philippians 3:8-11 - Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the
  surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have
  suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I
  may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
  that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the
  righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and the
  power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him
  in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from
  the dead. (ESV)

17.6. Dead works: The type of work that's bad

What is wrong is trying to establish a righteousness of one's own apart from
submitting to the righteousness of God - it's saying, "God, I think you
should have this, or, God I think I'm righteous because I did this for you."
rather than, "here is what you asked of me, LORD."

Work not done in faith:

  Leviticus 10:1-2 - Now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his
  censer and put fire in it and laid incense on it and offered unauthorized
  fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. And fire came out
  from before the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord.

  I Samuel 15:22-23 - And Samuel said, Has the LORD as great delight in burnt
  offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold, to
  obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. For
  rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and
  idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the LORD, he has also
  rejected you from being king. (ESV)

God didn't ask for the offering which Nadab and Abihu offered.

Ananias gave to God unfaithfully, in a manner similar to Cain.

  Acts 4:32 - Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and
  soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his
  own, but they had everything in common.

  Acts 5:1-5 - But a man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece
  of property, and with his wife's knowledge he kept back for himself some of
  the proceeds and brought only a part of it and laid it at the apostles'
  feet. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to
  the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the
  land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it
  was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived
  this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God. When Ananias
  heard these words, he fell down and breathed his last. And great fear came
  upon all who heard of it. (ESV)

Cain was half-hearted with his offering to the LORD, as Ananias was:

  Genesis 4:3-5 - In the course of time Cain brought to the Lord an offering
  of the fruit of the ground, and Abel also brought of the firstborn of his
  flock and of their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel and his
  offering, but for Cain and his offering he had no regard. So Cain was very
  angry, and his face fell. (ESV)

  1 John 3:12 - We should not be like Cain, who was of the evil one and
  murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own deeds were
  evil and his brother's righteous. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:4 - By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice
  than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him
  by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still
  speaks. (ESV)

  Hebrews 6:1 - Therefore let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and
  go on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead
  works and of faith toward God,

Dead works are works not done in service to God, but works done in service to
God, He may accept.

17.6.1. Works of the law are dead works. God always desired us to serve Him
with mercy

  Hebrews 10:8 - When he said above, You have neither desired nor taken
  pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings
  (these are offered according to the law),

Hebrews addressed the same passage which Jesus addressed:

  Matthew 12:3-8 - He said to them, Have you not read what David did when he
  was hungry, and those who were with him: how he entered the house of God
  and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat
  nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests? Or have you not
  read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the
  Sabbath and are guiltless? I tell you, something greater than the temple is
  here. And if you had known what this means, I desire mercy, and not
  sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless. For the Son of Man
  is lord of the Sabbath.

17.7. Working faith

Works and faith can't really exist apart from one another because even to
believe in Jesus is a work - a work done in Christ, that is:

  John 6:27 - Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that
  endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him
  God the Father has set his seal. (ESV)

This faith/trust/belief towards Jesus listens to Jesus' voice. So if a person
is rejecting Jesus' teachings then they need to repent and trust Jesus'
words. If the belief is true then we'll continue believing Jesus with all the
other things He said:

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

  John 10:16 - And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring
  them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock,
  one shepherd. (ESV)

  II John 1:9 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching
  of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the
  Father and the Son. (ESV)

We need to believe and then call on Jesus to save us, (usually out of
desperation). This is another act of obedience to the Gospel. We don't call
on a law to save us; we call on Jesus to save us. That looks like beating
hand on chest, wanting to turn from sin and begging God to save us:

  Romans 10:12-14 - For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; the
  same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For
  everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. But how are they
  to call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe
  in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without
  someone preaching? (ESV)

Ironically, I feel like this word hupakouó which means to "fully hearken"
(it's an intensification of the verb "to listen" with connotations of paying
attention and responding to obey) may have been "demoted" in meaning by many
people to not at all mean "fully hearken to / become obedient to the
command":

  Romans 10:16 - But they have not all obeyed (G5219. hupakouó - I listen,
  hearken to, obey, answer) the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has
  believed (G4100 pisteuó) what he has heard from us? (ESV)

Hupakouó really means to be fully compliant to:

|  5219 /hypakoúō ("obey") is acting under the authority of the one speaking, i.e. really listening to the one giving the charge (order). 5219 /hypakoúō ("to hearken, obey") suggests attentively listening, i.e. fully compliant (responsive).
| 
|  [5219 (hypakoúō) is an "intensification" of the simple verb "to listen" (191 /akoúō, "hear").]

|  235  3756 3956    5219       3588    2098         2268   1063 3004
|  All’ ou   pantes  hypēkousan tō      euangeliō    Ēsaias gar  legei
|  Ἀλλ’ οὐ   πάντες  ὑπήκουσαν  τῷ      εὐαγγελίῳ  . Ἠσαΐας γὰρ  λέγει  ,
|  But  not  all     heeded     the     good news    Isaiah for  says
|  Conj Adv  Adj-NMP V-AIA-3P   Art-DNS N-DNS        N-NMS  Conj V-PIA-3S
| 
|  2962     5101     4100         3588    189    1473
|  Kyrie    tis      episteusen   tē      akoē   hēmōn
|  Κύριε  , τίς      ἐπίστευσεν   τῇ      ἀκοῇ   ἡμῶν  ?
|   Lord     who      has believed the     report of us
|   N-VMS    IPro-NMS V-AIA-3S     Art-DFS N-DFS  PPro-G1P

So we have to believe on Him (who He is), and call on Him to save us - and
this is an act of obedience to His command to trust in Him and call on Him,
so we come to trust and obey Him:

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

If we're "of the Truth" then we will hear His words and be corrected by His
teaching, and not disregard all His words, but believe them as we hear them:

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

The obedience continues:

  John 14:12 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also
  do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I
  am going to the Father. (ESV)

  John 6:28-29 - Then they said to him, What must we do, to be doing the
  works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you
  believe (G4100 pisteuo) in him whom he has sent.

  James 2:26 - For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without
  works is dead also. (KJV)

Justifying obedience can exist without work. It says, "Have mercy on me a
sinner… Please give me another chance to do Your will, LORD.":

  Luke 18:10-14 - Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and
  the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus:
  God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust,
  adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week; I give
  tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector, standing far off, would
  not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be
  merciful to me, a sinner! I tell you, this man went down to his house
  justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be
  humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted. (ESV)

To be justified by working faith, a person must have the faith of Abraham. By
faith Abraham obeyed. So the faith has the fruit of walking in the footsteps
of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

So what Jesus is saying is quite similar, I think. We must have the faith of
Abraham, but in regards to following Jesus. That being said, around when I
was born-again of the spirit, I had only exercised very simple faith -
believing God exists, Jesus exists, and exercising faithfulness and obedience
to Jesus, believing God sees in secret, and after being like that, struggling
with sin, I called out to God for help, and He made me born-again of the
Spirit. It was a total gift and a rescue:

  I Peter 1:23 - since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but
  of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God; (ESV)

youtube.com: Hope and the Fruit of Love @time: 2 min 43 sec
New Birth by the word of God. So you got the act of God in causing us to be
born again and you've got the active man in obedience to that truth,
purifying his heart.

However, faith continues. We should repent from sin and be corrected by the
word and Sanctified in the Word of God and carry out the good works which God
lines up for us which He had planned for us. And faith continues, and we seek
to come after Jesus. A similar situation happened to me like the situation of
when Abraham put Isaac on the Altar, and like Abraham I had to give up
something I really wanted and it meant obeying Jesus, exercising trusting
faith and obedience to Jesus, forgiving and becoming a scapegoat. So I still
say that believers who have been born of promise, born of the Spirit, should
continue in the faith of Abraham. Obedience leads to reward, commendation,
being a friend of God. But to be a disciple of Jesus we should count the
cost, because it can be very difficult:

  Luke 9:23-24 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him
  deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would
  save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will
  save it. (ESV)

  I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  (ESV)

youtube.com: Hope and the Fruit of Love @time: 2 min 0 sec

Since you have in obedience to the truth purified your souls for a sincere
love of the brethren - there's there's the pillar - therefore, fervently love
one another.

So, the first pillar is Soul purifying obedience to the truth. Do we all see
that? Since you have purified your souls by obedience to the truth, love.

If you do this you can love. If you don't do this, love falls. If you do
this, love stands. So there's pillar number one.

Since there is a soul purifying obedience to the truth, you can love each
other.

Even the demons believe God is one and they shudder. The faithful believe God
and love God (a totally different response). Love is obedience to God, and
includes accepting and having faith in the one who God sent, Jesus.

  James 2:19 - You believe that God is one; you do well. Even the demons
  believe—and shudder!

Believing Father God Jehovah, loving Him, obeying His commandments, loving
and obeying Jesus Christ His son, all must be true together, even to have a
sound definition of what love is:

  I John 5:1-3 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and
  obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his
  commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me.

  I John 5:2-3 - By this we know that we love the children of God, when we
  love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we
  keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.

The command to believe is a command to obedience, the obedience of faith. The
command to obedience is not to the law but to have faith in Jesus. While the
law of God revives the soul while we are actually meditating on it and doing
it, the law doesn't save to perfection - it doesn't purify the heart. The
obedience we have in the heart which saves is trust in Jesus Christ Himself
where we become trusting, believing and obedient to Jesus, and as we hold
fast to His gospel, Jesus brings us to God. God purifies our heart as we hold
faith in Jesus:

  Hebrews 7:19 - (for the law made nothing perfect); but on the other hand, a
  better hope is introduced, through which we draw near to God. (ESV)

  I Peter 3:18-20 - For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for
  the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the
  flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the
  spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience
  waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a
  few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. (ESV)

The faith we have in Jesus is based on better hope and better promises and
because the Mosaic Law is eclipsed by faith as Abraham received the promise
before the law was given through Moses, even Abraham was obedient to God
before the Mosaic Law was given. So to relegate obedience to being merely a
Mosaic Law thing is incorrect. But we obey Jesus:

  Galatians 3:24-27 - So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in
  order that we might be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we
  are no longer under a guardian, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of
  God, through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have
  put on Christ. (ESV)

But the precepts to agape (value, treasure) God, and one's neighbour and
faith and obedience to God have been around since the very beginning. We
don't say that obedience is only to the Mosaic law - it's not - we can trust
God, believe and obey God's voice directly directly as Abraham did. We trust
Jesus. A disobedient faith is not faith at all but in coming to trust in
Jesus Christ, God's Son, we have become obedient to God through faith.

But we are obedient slaves now to righteousness, slaves of God, as slaves of
Christ:

  Romans 6:16-18 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone
  as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But
  thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient
  from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,
  and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.
  (ESV)

Faith doesn't exist without obedience. Obedience doesn't exist without faith.
The obedient will love Jesus, obeying Jesus, having faith in Jesus:

  James 2:18 - But someone will say, You have faith and I have works. Show me
  your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works.

It's wrong to equate Mosaic law with obedience. We were called to obedience
before the Mosaic law was even given:

  Romans 1:1-7 - Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle,
  set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his
  prophets in the holy Scriptures, concerning his Son, who was descended from
  David according to the flesh and was declared to be the Son of God in power
  according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead,
  Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship
  to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all
  the nations, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ, To all
  those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints: Grace to you
  and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

And justification is a matter of obedience of faith (in the heart) for the
sake of his name. So we become obedient at the same time as we truly believe:

  Romans 10:10 - For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with
  the mouth one confesses and is saved. (ESV)

  Ezekiel 36:24-27 - I will take you from the nations and gather you from all
  the countries and bring you into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water
  on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all
  your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart, and a new
  spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from
  your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit within
  you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.
  (ESV)

It makes sense that the basis for continued obedience is trust. But I think
the real problem with a lot of theology these days is that people think that
obedience means "having produced work".

  Romans 6:17-18 - But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. (ESV)

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

  I Corinthians 3:15 - If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss,
  though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire. (ESV)

A person can be obedient even before they're given an instruction - like
someone waiting for an instruction, after having a heart which is now
obedient. Willing to do God's will - and that is not self-seeking.

  John 7:17-18 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether
  the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. The
  one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory, but the one who
  seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no
  falsehood. (ESV)

I think that coming to trust in Jesus is a free gift to us. It's a really low
barrier of entry for us to begin doing the will of God. When we place our
faith in Jesus we have become obedient to the heart, but we are supposed to
go on becoming obedient in the heart to the standard of teaching we are
committed to which comes from Jesus.

  Romans 6:17-18 - But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. (ESV)

  II John 1:9 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching
  of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the
  Father and the Son. (ESV)

Obeying the gospel and having faith in Jesus comes from hearing Jesus' words
(his teachings), even from reading it as described in the Old Testament
(Romans 1:1-2). Sharing the gospel is speak to people what Jesus has spoken
and allowing them to trust Jesus' words, and in trusting Jesus' words we
trust in Jesus:

  Romans 10:14-17 - But how are they to call on him in whom they have not
  believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard?
  And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to
  preach unless they are sent? As it is written, How beautiful are the feet
  of those who preach the good news! But they have not all obeyed the gospel.
  For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? So faith
  comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. (ESV)

God's commandment is to bring about the obedience of faith (having faith is
in God and through Jesus Christ is being obedient to God):

  Romans 16:26 - but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic
  writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of
  the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith — (ESV)

We go from performing 'dead works' to 'faithful works'.

  Hebrews 9:14 - how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the
  eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our
  conscience from dead works to serve the living God.

  Matthew 25:21 - His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful
  servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much.
  Enter into the joy of your master.

We stop doing dead works to serve the living God, which I believe is
obedience, which is really similar to work but it's obeying. Obedience gives
glory to God. God saves a person, they're converted, and come into God's
Kingdom and the angels rejoice.

  Luke 15:10 - Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God
  over one sinner who repents.

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all
  people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

Obeying Jesus' commandments are not 'dead works'.

  Exodus 20:12-17 - Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be
  long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. You shall not
  murder. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not
  bear false witness against your neighbor. You shall not covet your
  neighbor's house; you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, or his male
  servant, or his female servant, or his ox, or his donkey, or anything that
  is your neighbor's.

Jesus said:

  Mark 10:19 - You know the commandments: Do not murder, Do not commit
  adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor
  your father and mother. (ESV)

Obeying God by following the 10 commandments properly, in truth, is not
performing 'dead works'.

The Holy Spirit cleanses our hearts by faith:

  Acts 15:8-9 - And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, by giving
  them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us, and he made no distinction
  between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.

  Hebrews 9:14 - how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the
  eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our
  conscience from dead works to serve the living God.

Service to God is obeying God through Christ's commandments. It's being a
bond-servant of Christ.

Also, the following means that having faith in Jesus is tightly coupled to
doing the works that Jesus did - to acting like Jesus - to obeying His
commandments.

  John 14:12 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also
  do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I
  am going to the Father.

Whoever has faith in Jesus, the works that Jesus does, that person will do.
Pisteuo (pisteuōn) = faith.

  John 14:12 - Truly (G281 amen), truly (G281 amen), I say (G3004 lego) to
  you, he who believes (G4100 pisteuo) in Me, the works (G2041 ergon) that I
  do (G4160 poieo), he will do (G4160 poieo) also (G2548 kakeinos); and
  greater (G3173 megas) works than these (G3778 houtos) he will do (G4160
  poieo); because (G3754 hoti) I go (G4198 poreuomai) to the Father (G3962
  pater). (NASB)

|  :  4100  pisteuo  pist-yoo'-o
| 
|   from 4102; to have faith (in, upon, or with respect to, a person or
|   thing), i.e. credit; by implication, to entrust (especially one's
|   spiritual well-being to Christ):--believe(-r), commit (to trust), put
|   in trust with.
|   see GREEK for 4102

If someone trusts their Lord then they do what their Lord does and has
commanded.

17.7.1. Faith in Jesus Himself

  Luke 7:6-9 - And Jesus went with them. When he was not far from the house,
  the centurion sent friends, saying to him, Lord, do not trouble yourself,
  for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof. Therefore I did not
  presume to come to you. But say the word, and let my servant be healed. For
  I too am a man set under authority, with soldiers under me: and I say to
  one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my
  servant, Do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard these things, he
  marveled at him, and turning to the crowd that followed him, said, I tell
  you, not even in Israel have I found such faith. (ESV)

  Luke 8:43-48 - And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for
  twelve years, and though she had spent all her living on physicians, she
  could not be healed by anyone. She came up behind him and touched the
  fringe of his garment, and immediately her discharge of blood ceased. And
  Jesus said, Who was it that touched me? When all denied it, Peter said,
  Master, the crowds surround you and are pressing in on you! But Jesus said,
  Someone touched me, for I perceive that power has gone out from me. And
  when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling
  down before him declared in the presence of all the people why she had
  touched him, and how she had been immediately healed. And he said to her,
  Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace. (ESV)

17.7.2. Faith is faithful, humble, and enduring - it's active and enduring
faithfulness to God in humility

  Psalms 31:23 - Love the LORD, all you his saints! The LORD preserves the
  faithful but abundantly repays the one who acts in pride. (ESV)

17.7.3. Jesus's Lordship is not merely His authority over us, but us yielding
our lives to Jesus - us wanting to do His will, and us wanting to obey Him

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

  Colossians 2:5-6 - For though I am absent in body, yet I am with you in
  spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in
  Christ. Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him,
  (ESV)

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

  I Peter 1:2-3 - according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the
  sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for
  sprinkling with his blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you.
  Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! According to his
  great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the
  resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, (ESV)

Even the demons are subject to the authority of Jesus Christ, but they
certainly don't have a response of love for God.

  John 6:70 - Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you, the Twelve? And yet
  one of you is a devil. (ESV)

We serve our earthly masters/lords sincerely.

  Colossians 3:22-24 - Slaves, obey in everything those who are your earthly
  masters, not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity
  of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord
  and not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the
  inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. (ESV)

youtube.com: Slavery and Christ's Supreme Lordship: How to Live Under Human
Authority {@desiringGod} @time: 36 min 48 sec
So does God Almighty like it when people say, "You're my God, you're my
protector, you're my friend, nobody can touch me when I have my arm around
this God." But you run away from him and He will growl and if you keep
running, you're dead forever.

youtube.com: Slavery and Christ's Supreme Lordship: How to Live Under Human
Authority {@desiringGod} @time: 37 min 12 sec
So sometimes people say, well the fear of God it's just reverence (it's not
negative), not being, "You shouldn't be afraid of God." Baloney! Of course
you should be afraid of God… if you are running away from God. The Bible
doesn't play games - He's is God. He means for you to hug his neck and fight
for you with all his omnipotence. That's what He means to happen. If you run,
he's He's growling, and He'll growl after you for 30, 40, 50 years and then
it will be too late to turn, so you you don't have to dilute the meaning of
the fear of God in order to make it positive. You just have to make the
distinction between if I'm running toward him do I need to be afraid? or if
I'm running away from him do I need to be afraid? - That's not rocket
science.

We should have a good work ethic when working for our earthly masters,
particularly if their master is the Lord Jesus. Jesus is ultimately our only
Lord and Master. We work ethically because Jesus commanded it. But we are
subject to a higher law, the law of God, and that means obedience to Jesus:

youtube.com: Slavery and Christ's Supreme Lordship: How to Live Under Human
Authority {@desiringGod}
You think I'm [merely] obeying you, but it's not what you think, Mr 'lord'.
You don't have any 'final' authority over me. I do not do anything simply
because you say I should do it - don't misread that - simply. I don't do
anything simply because you say I should do it. [But] I have a Lord who is
infinitely stronger than you, infinitely wiser than you, infinitely more
authoritative than you, infinitely more satisfying than you in my life. If
you ask me to do anything contrary to his will it's not going to happen.

I found the above sermon to be really clarifying. But I'd just make the point
that I believe the inheritance is a share in the inheritance but I'm pretty
sure I wont be hearing "what's mine is yours". It all belongs to Jesus and if
He lets me share even a tiny bit of that then that's OK but it all belongs to
Jesus. Jesus is always the King of the Kingdom.

  Daniel 7:13-14 - I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of
  heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the Ancient of Days
  and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a
  kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him; his
  dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his
  kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:27 - And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the
  kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints
  of the Most High; their kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom, and all
  dominions shall serve and obey them. (ESV)

  Romans 8:16-17 - The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we
  are children of God, and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow
  heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be
  glorified with him. (ESV)

17.7.4. Lordship salvation and free grace - an apparent paradox

Jesus' words never expire:

  Matthew 24:35 - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass
  away. (ESV)

I see faith alone for justification and working faith as means of becoming a
child of Abraham to be not mutually-exclusive.

Trusting in God, taking steps of faith in God as Abraham had, the true
circumcision (people keeping the precepts of the law) may be saved:

  John 8:39-40 - They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to
  them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what Abraham did,
  but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard
  from God. This is not what Abraham did. (ESV)

  Luke 3:8 - Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say
  to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father. For I tell you, God is able
  from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. (ESV)

  Luke 19:8-10 - And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the
  half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of
  anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has
  come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man
  came to seek and to save the lost. (ESV)

Trusting and continuing to trust in God by trusting the Lord Jesus Christ,
anyone (even gentiles) can be saved:

  Acts 16:30-34 - Then he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to
  be saved? And they said, Believe (4100. pisteuó) in the Lord Jesus, and you
  will be saved, you and your household. And they spoke the word of the Lord
  to him and to all who were in his house. And he took them the same hour of
  the night and washed their wounds; and he was baptized at once, he and all
  his family. Then he brought them up into his house and set food before
  them. And he rejoiced along with his entire household that he had believed
  in God. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:19 - holding faith and a good conscience. By rejecting this,
  some have made shipwreck of their faith, (ESV)

Gentiles should absolutely move towards continued faithfulness and obedience
to God, producing agape love towards God and mankind:

  Romans 2:4 - Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and
  forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead
  you to repentance? (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart
  and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ - heirs
according to promise:

  Galatians 3:26-29 - for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through
  faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
  There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is
  neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you
  are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise.
  (ESV)

You can see here that faith alone and working faith seem to both be ways to
be a child of Abraham:

All who a) believe without being circumcised (i.e. they are not under the
law), and also b) those who are circumcised (adhere to the law) but walk in
the footsteps of faith that Abraham had before he was circumcised (still walk
in faith as Abraham did before circumcision) are heirs according to promise:

  Romans 4:11-12 - He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the
  righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The
  purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being
  circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to
  make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but
  who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had
  before he was circumcised. (ESV)

It's evident from Romans 4:11-12 and Romans 3:27-31 that both the circumcised
(those still keeping the precepts of the Law) and the uncircumcised are
justified by faith. i.e. replacement-theology is wrong. Working-faith as a
mode of being justified, walking as Abraham did while keeping the precepts of
the law is still a mode of justification, as I currently (<2024-09-28 Sat>)
understand:

  Romans 3:27-31 - Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what
  kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by the law of faith. For we hold
  that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or is God the
  God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles
  also, since God is one. He will justify the circumcised by faith and the
  uncircumcised through faith. Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By
  no means! On the contrary, we uphold the law. (ESV)

Here, Paul actually argues for keeping the precepts of the Torah, and relates
actually keeping the precepts to those who have been circumcised in the
heart. Being a 'Jew' inwardly is unbound by time:

  Romans 2:25-29 - For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law,
  but if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So, if
  a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his
  uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically
  uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code
  and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one
  outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one
  inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by
  the letter. His praise is not from man but from God.

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of faith:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: The Book of James - {James 1:1-12} - God's word is a mirror to
my condition to encourage what's right in me, correct what's wrong in me, and
reflect God's love for me. A sermon by Chris Hilken in the book of James
series at College Ave Church.

You can't have only half of Jesus. Jesus both protects us and disciplines us:

  Psalms 23:4 - Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,
  I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they
  comfort me. (ESV)

I believe a heart must be both believing and obedient to receive the grace
through faith, since I believe true faith is both obedient and believing.

After receiving justification (counted not guilty) through obedient and
believing faith, we should continue in obedient and believing faith but the
work we do is to be tested and is not essential to our justification:

  1 Corinthians 3:15 - If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss,
  though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire. (ESV)

We love (obey) because He loved us first, and through obedience we are
sanctified, which leads to eternal life.

Firstly, I'm not the judge, but I'm going to share my beliefs.

  James 4:12 - There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save
  and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? (ESV)

I believe that if a person has a believing, obedient heart to Jesus, then
that is the type of belief which qualifies as belief. Or perhaps disobedience
simply leads to a curse but not condemnation:

  I Corinthians 16:22 - If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be
  accursed. Our Lord, come! (ESV)

We're certainly supposed to trust Jesus and both believe and obey Him.

Heresies/delusions:

• free grace without Lordship (without sanctification by the Spirit)
• Not desiring to do God's will. i.e.:
• Not willing to keep Jesus' words.
• Not willing to love Jesus.
• Not willing to obey Jesus.
• Not willing to follow Jesus.
• Not willing to love one another as Jesus loved us.
• Not servants of the Lord Jesus Christ.
• Not trusting Jesus who has done the finished work for their
justification
• Lordship without free grace (working to be forgiven, without belief in
the truth)
• Not willing to accept that Jesus Christ is the propitiation for our
sins.
• Not willing to submit to the righteousness of God which is once
again, to accept the propitiation for our sins.
• We must know that God loved us and sent his Son to be the
propitiation for our sins.
• John 10:1 - Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter
the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way, that
man is a thief and a robber. (ESV)
• Trusting on their own works to appease God's wrath.
• Not believing Jesus has done the finished work for their
justification

I believe that either of those two heresies/delusions likely (but I'm not the
judge) fall under this strong delusion category. It's very serious if they
indeed do. We must believe the Truth and repent from sinful behaviour and be
sanctified by walking in obedience to the Truth if we do not want to perish
along with the world:

  2 Thessalonians 2:11-13 - Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so
  that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who
  did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. But we ought
  always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because
  God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the
  Spirit and belief in the truth. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 11:32 - But when we are judged by the Lord, we are
  disciplined so that we may not be condemned along with the world. (ESV)

  II Peter 3:9 - The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count
  slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish,
  but that all should reach repentance. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 21:8 - But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the
  detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters,
  and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and
  sulfur, which is the second death. (ESV)

Justified and saved from wrath i.e. has obedient faith:

• Response of love for Jesus
• I John 4:10-11 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but
that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our
sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one
another. (ESV)
• Ephesians 6:6 - not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers,
but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,
• trusting on the finished work of Jesus and trusting on Jesus Himself who
has done the work
• Obedient to Jesus
• The finished work of Jesus covers them

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

Probably not saved from wrath i.e. without obedient faith:

• trusting on the finished work of Jesus while not trusting on Jesus
Himself who has done the work?
• No love for Jesus (not Jesus' sheep)
• not trying to keep His commandments
• no response of love for Jesus
• The finished work of Jesus probably doesn't help them because they
don't receive it by uniting the gospel with faith

  Ephesians 2:3 - among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh,
  carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature
  children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. (ESV)

Probably not justified:

• not submitting to the righteousness of God
• not accepting that they needed forgiveness
• not accepting that God loved them first by atoning for their sin

Hyper-Calvinism:

youtube.com: When Calvinism Goes Bad {Part 3} - Tim Conway {@illbehonest}
@time: 4 min 24 sec

I need to explain Calvinism because I want to deal with the error,
Hyper-Calvinism. What is that? That is taking the fact that God tells us man
can't come unless the Father draws him because he is that depraved. Man is
bad, man is dead in trespasses and sins.

There are those that have taken these doctrines of the sovereignty of God,
the fact that there is an elect, the fact that God has a design in who He
would save, the fact of irresistible grace, there are those who have taken
that and they have used their rationale and their logic and they've come to a
point where you no longer have a Gospel. They don't have the biblical Gospel.

And you can see how that can be, right? Okay, you have a sinner. That sinner
does no good. How can he do good? If God by His irresitible grace penetrates
into that man's life, gives him desire, opens his eyes. He's the God who
says, "let there be light," he opens the sinners eyes so that they behold
some beauty in Christ. Well, he won't come unless he's drawn, he won't come
unless God says, "let there be light." That's true!

But the Hyper Calvinist then says, "well, because he can't do anything until
God does something, then we better not press him to do anything."

romans45.org hypercal.htm: A Primer on Hyper-Calvinism

I wrote and posted this article because I am concerned about some subtle
trends that seem to signal a rising tide of hyper-Calvinism, especially
within the ranks of young Calvinists and the newly Reformed.

History teaches us that hyper-Calvinism is as much a threat to true Calvinism
as Arminianism is.

Virtually every revival of true Calvinism since the Puritan era has been
hijacked, crippled, or ultimately killed by hyper- Calvinist influences.

Modern Calvinists would do well to be on guard against the influence of these
deadly trends.

youtube.com: When Calvinism Goes Bad {Part 3} - Tim Conway {@illbehonest}
@time: 20 min 46 sec
and [if] you in any way make them feel like it is valid for them to be
unrepentant. You console them as though it is outside of their power, all
that you are doing is encouraging them in a deception. You tell them, well,
sit under preaching, pray, ask God for a new heart, ask God to make you
repentant, ask God to give you faith, wait on the Lord. But you know what you
have just done? You haven't humbled him, you haven't debased him, you haven't
honored God. What you've done is you've actually appealed to his
self-righteousness.

youtube.com: When Calvinism Goes Bad {Part 3} - Tim Conway {@illbehonest}
@time: 23 min 10 sec

This is a parable. This represents the calling of sinners with the Gospel to
come to Christ, to come to the Marriage Supper of the Lamb.

"A man once gave a great banquet and invited many" So you see the invitation.
This is the Gospel invitation being pictured here. "And at the time of the
banquet, he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, 'Come!
everything is now ready!'" Isn't that what we tell sinners? Come! Everything
is ready! Everything that was necessary for your salvation is done. Look,
even Mr. Hart in the hymn we sang… Does Scripture say that all that He
requires of you is that you feel your need of Him? I'll tell you what
Scripture says, "Come! everything is ready." Because as soon as you say, "oh!
I have to feel my need of Him." Do you know where you are looking now? How
much do I feel? You are not bid to come because you feel anything. Now look,
Scripture talks to those who feel certain ways. If you desire, if you are
thirsty, if you are burdened or heavy-laden. It speaks to them to encourage
them to come. But that is not the basis on which you come. Scripture commands
you to come. That is the basis, that is the warrant to come.

Because you have been commanded, all men everywhere have been commanded to
repent! Come! Everything is now ready.

Seriously, this verse:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

youtube.com: When Calvinism Goes Bad {Part 3} - Tim Conway {@illbehonest}
@time: 26 min 31 sec

"Another said, I bought five yoke of oxen and I go to examine them. Please
have me excused. Another said, I have married a wife (now watch these words)
and therefore I cannot come." Did you notice? Cannot. Did you notice you
cannot come to Christ unless the Father draws? Did you notice that this man
says, "I cannot"? Do you see what kind of "cannot" it is? It's a cannot
because I love other things more than I love Christ and more than I desire
the salvation that He offers. I love my sin. I don't want to go to Hell. This
is one of the problems that we are dealing with all of the time. We get
people who don't want to go to Hell and then they are doing all the
acrobatics and they're weeping the tears and all this and then they are
frustrated. Well, of course they are frustrated because they want to go to
Heaven without forsaking their sin. These people were making excuses. Do you
know why you can't come? Because you love your wife more than Christ.

That's what Jesus said to those pharisees. You cannot come, you cannot
believe, because you desire the glory that comes from one another. You see,
when you desire something more than salvation, something more than Him, you
cannot come. Why? Because you won't!

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

  John 8:51 - Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps (G5083 téreó) my
  word, he will never see death. (ESV)

5083. téreó
Definition: To keep, to guard, to observe, to watch over. Meaning: I keep,
guard, observe, watch over.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

Trusting and obeying Jesus qualifies, but belief without obedience or trust
in the heart doesn't qualify, I am quite sure. But I am not the judge, God
is.

youtube.com: When Calvinism Goes Bad {Part 3} - Tim Conway {@illbehonest}
@time: 40 min 16 sec
Neither Jesus nor His apostles ever pressed men to use means to repentance
and faith. They used means to produce repentance and faith. They preached the
Word! They proclaimed Christ! They used means to bring about repentance and
faith in the people they preached to. But they never preached to people to do
things to bring about repentance and faith. They commanded them to repent and
believe immediately!

youtube.com: When Calvinism Goes Bad {Part 3} - Tim Conway {@illbehonest}
@time: 54 min 29 sec
Listen to Phil Johnson, he said, "one young Hyper-Calvinist he was dealing
with told him, 'the message of the Gospel is that God saves those who are His
own and damns those who are not.'" You can tell, Phil Johnson said this in a
way that He did not believe that that is the Gospel. So what happens? The
good news about Christ's sin-atoning death and victorious resurrection gets
replaced. By what? By a message about election, reprobation, depravity, that
God hates workers of iniquity and hates those that He has chosen to damn.
There is nothing whatsoever that they can do about it. It is fatalistic.
Hyper-Calvinism is very fatalistic.

Trust in God (Trusting in God involves trusting God and trusting God enough
to do what He says):

• We should trust in God.
• We should have faith in God.
• We should have faith in Jesus.
• God justifies the one who puts their faith in Jesus, who trusts in Jesus.

Putting faith in Jesus means trusting in Jesus and trusting.

We don't love the Christmas presents more than our parents. Rather, we simply
love our parents and they provide the Christmas presents. Likewise, we trust
in Jesus and we believe that God justifies the one who trusts in Jesus.

The true believers follow Jesus. They are Jesus' sheep, and they keep His
teachings and trust in Him (enough to obey Him penitently):

• trust Jesus
• youtube.com: I trust in God !
• even for their justification
• hear Jesus' voice
• love Him
• follow Him (they're being obedient)
• Jesus knows them

  John 10:26-29 - but you do not believe because you are not part of my
  flock. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give
  them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them
  out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all,
  and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. (ESV)

We need to accept that God loved us first, and that we need forgiveness from
God, that Jesus is our Lord and God, and King, and the propitiation for our
sins. We need to accept forgiveness and pass forward forgiveness, and pass
forward love and forgiveness freely as we have received love and forgiveness.

The ones who do not submit to the righteousness of God, but do not accept the
love of God and do not accept that we needed God's forgiveness, and do not
accept Jesus, and would prefer to be their own god - those people are like
thieves. They want to be their own god. Maybe they want to walk on water, and
have spiritual experiences, but are content stealing from God:

  John 10:1 - Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold
  by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber.
  (ESV)

  Malachi 3:8 - Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, How
  have we robbed you? In your tithes and contributions. (ESV)

  Malachi 3:15-18 - And now we call the arrogant blessed. Evildoers not only
  prosper but they put God to the test and they escape. Then those who feared
  the LORD spoke with one another. The LORD paid attention and heard them,
  and a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the
  LORD and esteemed his name. They shall be mine, says the LORD of hosts, in
  the day when I make up my treasured possession, and I will spare them as a
  man spares his son who serves him. Then once more you shall see the
  distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between one who serves
  God and one who does not serve him. (ESV)

God loved us first. We must accept that:

  I John 4:10-11 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he
  loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if
  God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. (ESV)

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

The ones who love Jesus, keep His teachings:

  John 14:23-24 - Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my
  word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our
  home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the
  word that you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me. (ESV)

The free grace is so that Jesus may bring us (through His Lordship) to God.
It's so that we might come to obey God:

  I Peter 3:17-21 - For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should
  be God's will, than for doing evil. For Christ also suffered once for sins,
  the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put
  to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and
  proclaimed to the spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey,
  when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being
  prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely
  through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a
  removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good
  conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, (ESV)

I wholeheartedly believe that Jesus Christ can bring us to God. I also
believe that by obeying Jesus, He works through us. I also believe that God
wants us to obey Him of our own volition.

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

  I John 5:2 - By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love
  God and obey his commandments.

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us.

We must both believe the truth and be sanctified, and try to stop sinning
(i.e. purify ourselves):

  II Thessalonians 2:11-14 - Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so
  that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who
  did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. But we ought
  always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because
  God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the
  Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel,
  so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Sanctification:

  I Thessalonians 5:23 - Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you
  completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless
  at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

  I Timothy 6:3-11 - If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not
  agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that
  accords with godliness, he is puffed up with conceit and understands
  nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about
  words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, and
  constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the
  truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain. Now there is great gain
  in godliness with contentment, for we brought nothing into the world, and
  we cannot take anything out of the world. But if we have food and clothing,
  with these we will be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into
  temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that
  plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of
  all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away
  from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. But as for you, O
  man of God, flee these things. Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith,
  love, steadfastness, gentleness. (ESV)

  II Peter 2:6 - if by turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes he
  condemned them to extinction, making them an example of what is going to
  happen to the ungodly;

  I John 3:1-3 - See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we
  should be called children of God; and so we are. The reason why the world
  does not know us is that it did not know him. Beloved, we are God's
  children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared; but we know that
  when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is.
  And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. (ESV)

  I John 3:3-7 - And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is
  pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness;
  sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him
  there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who
  keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no
  one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is
  righteous. (ESV)

  Jude 1:4-5 - For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were
  designated for this condemnation, ungodly people, who pervert the grace of
  our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.
  Now I want to remind you, although you once fully knew it, that Jesus, who
  saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did
  not believe.

Sanctification:

  I Thessalonians 5:23 - Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you
  completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless
  at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

We are forgiven that we might be brought to God:

  Psalms 32:1 - Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin
  is covered. (ESV)

  Psalms 32:11 - Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for
  joy, all you upright in heart! (ESV)

If you believe in Him, trust Him, embrace Him, receive Him.

  John Piper says, "If you believe, you are united with Him, and it's all
  yours."

Talk
youtube.com: 2 Peter 2 Destructive Doctrines- guidance from the Word

I'd rather be a doer than merely a hearer.

  Matthew 7:16-20 - You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes
  gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? So, every healthy tree
  bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree
  cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree
  that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus
  you will recognize them by their fruits. (ESV)

Correct Christology is important, but so is obeying Jesus' commandments:

  Acts 24:22 - But Felix, having a rather accurate knowledge of the Way, put
  them off, saying, When Lysias the tribune comes down, I will decide your
  case. (ESV)

  Matthew 21:28-31 - “But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came
  to the first and said, ‘Son, go work today in the vineyard.’ And he
  answered, ‘I will not’; but afterward he regretted it and went. The man
  came to the second and said the same thing; and he answered, ‘I will, sir’;
  but he did not go. Which of the two did the will of his father?” They said,
  “The first.” Jesus said to them, “Truly I say to you that the tax
  collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you.

We must keep ourselves in the love of God by obeying Jesus Christ's
commandments, because we're awaiting to receive eternal life:

  Jude 1:21 - keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of
  our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. (ESV)

Keeping Jesus Christ's commandments is a requirement to inherit eternal life,
not an extra:

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

Whoever truly believes Jesus trusts in and is obedient to Jesus. We must obey
Jesus Christ, and that obedience means being a slave of righteousness,
leading to sanctification, which leads to eternal life:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

17.7.5. God desired to give assurance to the heirs of the promise

God let Abraham know He would bless him because he was obedient to His voice
and didn't withhold his son (Abraham's faith was tested to show that he agape
loved God first before even his only son):

  Genesis 22:15-18 - And the angel of the LORD called to Abraham a second
  time from heaven and said, By myself I have sworn, declares the LORD,
  because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son, I
  will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring as the
  stars of heaven and as the sand that is on the seashore. And your offspring
  shall possess the gate of his enemies, and in your offspring shall all the
  nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. (ESV)

  Hebrews 6:13-20 - For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no
  one greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself, saying, Surely I will
  bless you and multiply you. And thus Abraham, having patiently waited,
  obtained the promise. For people swear by something greater than
  themselves, and in all their disputes an oath is final for confirmation. So
  when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise the
  unchangeable character of his purpose, he guaranteed it with an oath, so
  that by two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie,
  we who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to
  the hope set before us. We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the
  soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain, where
  Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest
  forever after the order of Melchizedek. (ESV)

17.7.6. Yield to God

Submit to God's will:

  James 4:7 - Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he
  will flee from you. (ESV)

  Proverbs 3:6 - In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight
  your paths. (ESV)

Submit to Jesus' lordship:

  Matthew 16:24 - Then Jesus told his disciples, If anyone would come after
  me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. (ESV)

Sow your own life as an investment for Jesus' sake:

  Matthew 16:25 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever
  loses his life for my sake will find it. (ESV)

  John 12:24-26 - Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls
  into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much
  fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this
  world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, he must follow
  me; and where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the
  Father will honor him. (ESV)

St. Theophan the Recluse (1815-1894)
The goal of human freedom is not freedom itself… but in God… with the
intention that man would voluntarily bring it as a sacrifice to God, a most
pleasing offering. (St. Theophan’s “Path to Salvation” Topical Compendium,
169)

youtube.com: Nothing Can Separate Us from Christ's Love
You are so secure in Jesus that you are so bound to him that he has you so
firmly that His promises are so precious and so glorious and your destiny in
him is so firm and so fixed and so assured that you can actually give your
life away - give it away for others.

Seek God:

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

Accept God's plans:

  Jeremiah 29:11 - For I know the plans I have for you, declares the LORD,
  plans for wholeness and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope.
  (ESV)

  Psalms 23:3-4 - He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness
  for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of
  death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff,
  they comfort me. (ESV)

Desire to do the will of God, and allow God's word to teach you what that is:

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

Actually practice faith, and don't over-intellectualise God:

  Proverbs 3:5-6 - Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not lean on
  your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make
  straight your paths. (ESV)

We seek the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ, not our own glory. We should aim
not to speak on our own authority, but instead to speak the Truth from God:

  John 7:18 - The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory,
  but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him
  there is no falsehood. (ESV)

For sure, I just want to speak the truth from God, and I want to be
sanctified by the Truth, and I want to be corrected by the Truth:

  Ephesians 4:15-19 - Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up
  in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole
  body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped,
  when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds
  itself up in love. Now this I say and testify in the Lord, that you must no
  longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their minds. They are
  darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of
  the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart. They have
  become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to
  practice every kind of impurity. (ESV)

Seeking God in truth and not seeking glory from one another is a good place
to start in coming to believe. I guess that seeking the glory that comes from
the only God involves seeking to glorify God:

  John 5:44 - How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another
  and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? (ESV)

Come to Jesus:

  John 5:39-44 - You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you
  have eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me, yet you
  refuse to come to me that you may have life. I do not receive glory from
  people. But I know that you do not have the love of God within you. I have
  come in my Father's name, and you do not receive me. If another comes in
  his own name, you will receive him. How can you believe, when you receive
  glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only
  God? (ESV)

Yield to God. Let His will be done in us. If I do not fight against obedience
to Jesus' commandments but are willing to do them then I am willing for God's
will to be done in me. That is obedience:

  Isaiah 45:9 - Woe to him who strives with him who formed him, a pot among
  earthen pots! Does the clay say to him who forms it, What are you making?
  or Your work has no handles? (ESV)

  Luke 14:33 - So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he
  has cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:33 - But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and
  all these things will be added to you. (ESV)

17.7.7. Obey God and let Him save you

Fear of God or love for Him in obedience or thankfulness is work which comes
out of belief. But faith works, even saving faith works. Saving faith
especially requires obedience, I think. Faith without work doesn't exist I
think because the work of God is to believe on who He has sent - Jesus.

  Exodus 14:14-16 - The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be
  silent. The Lord said to Moses, Why do you cry to me? Tell the people of
  Israel to go forward. Lift up your staff, and stretch out your hand over
  the sea and divide it, that the people of Israel may go through the sea on
  dry ground.

17.7.8. The work of God is to trust in who He has sent, Jesus. God's work is
God working, and us working in obedience to God

  John 6:29 - Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you believe
  in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

God worked in this person's life:

  Romans 14:18-21 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and
  approved by men. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual
  upbuilding. Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God.
  Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another
  stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do
  anything that causes your brother to stumble. (ESV)

17.7.9. Don't underestimate Jesus' saving power

Jesus' blood applied to us can sanctify us:

  Hebrews 13:12 - So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to
  sanctify the people through his own blood. (ESV)

With Lazarus - Jesus performed the miracle so the people watching could
believe and have faith. Jesus wept before he raise Lazarus from the dead, and
many other people believed in Jesus and were saved, I assume.

  John 11:41-42 - So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes
  and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you
  always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around,
  that they may believe that you sent me.

  I Corinthians 13:13 - So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but
  the greatest of these is love.

  John 11:35 - Jesus wept.

  John 11:41-42 - So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes
  and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you
  always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around,
  that they may believe that you sent me.

And Jesus is able to save a person out of Jesus' own will, as he resurrected
Lazarus.

Sermon
youtube.com: Where's the Arminian John Piper?

  John 11:43 - When He had said these things, He cried out with a loud voice,
  “Lazarus, come forth.”

Jesus is so generous that He saves even unthankful people, but we should
definitely love Jesus as a response. This story should be taken to see how
Good God is, but also taken as a warning against unthankfulness:

  Luke 17:11-19 - On the way to Jerusalem he was passing along between
  Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers,
  who stood at a distance and lifted up their voices, saying, Jesus, Master,
  have mercy on us. When he saw them he said to them, Go and show yourselves
  to the priests. And as they went they were cleansed. Then one of them, when
  he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice; and
  he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a
  Samaritan. Then Jesus answered, Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine?
  Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner?
  And he said to him, Rise and go your way; your faith has made you well.
  (ESV)

17.7.10. Justification and redemption are a total gift

  Romans 3:21-26 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 10:5-6 - We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised
  against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey
  Christ, being ready to punish every disobedience, when your obedience is
  complete. (ESV)

Justification by works/obedience and justification by so-called 'faith alone'
is, in my opinion, not a dichotomy, because all the good works we do as a
consequence of being redeemed are a gift to us - us being in Him.

Faith is obedient, so faith alone (without any work on our part) is obedient
faith alone and to say "justified by working faith" is also true if the work
is ascribed to Jesus.

17.7.11. Just believe/obey Jesus to receive more faith and revelation and
salvation

The account of Jesus itself when it's read, and Jesus' words, are enough to
inspire faith. Therefore, faith comes by hearing the word of Christ.

Jesus calls persistent endurance a work. It's also required to keep our
confidence:

  Hebrews 10:35-36- Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a
  great reward. For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done
  the will of God you may receive what is promised.

Faith is like Peter stepping out on the water. Faith works. But I think
sometimes to create faith someone just has to actually believe Jesus because
Jesus performs the miracle / the work.

The LORD did something similar for the Israelites when He parted the Red Sea.
The Israelites obeyed God, and their obedience led them to sure belief. The
Israelites didn't "work for God" as they obeyed God to walk through the Red
Sea. Walking in obedience is not the same as "working". The Israelites were
an actual part of the miracle of going through the Red Sea. The miracle
wasn't just the water splitting, the Israelites walking through it was also
miraculous. By obeying God, God sent them through the Red Sea. Obedience,
belief and trust are all important in faith.

Revelation comes as we do what God commands us:

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. (ESV)

And I feel like we just need to start obeying God and obeying Jesus in order
to be saved. Obedience is steps of faith.

  Exodus 14:14-16 - The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be
  silent. The Lord said to Moses, Why do you cry to me? Tell the people of
  Israel to go forward. Lift up your staff, and stretch out your hand over
  the sea and divide it, that the people of Israel may go through the sea on
  dry ground.

  Exodus 14:21-30 - Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the
  Lord drove the sea back by a strong east wind all night and made the sea
  dry land, and the waters were divided. And the people of Israel went into
  the midst of the sea on dry ground, the waters being a wall to them on
  their right hand and on their left. The Egyptians pursued and went in after
  them into the midst of the sea, all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his
  horsemen. And in the morning watch the Lord in the pillar of fire and of
  cloud looked down on the Egyptian forces and threw the Egyptian forces into
  a panic, clogging their chariot wheels so that they drove heavily. And the
  Egyptians said, Let us flee from before Israel, for the Lord fights for
  them against the Egyptians. Then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your
  hand over the sea, that the water may come back upon the Egyptians, upon
  their chariots, and upon their horsemen. So Moses stretched out his hand
  over the sea, and the sea returned to its normal course when the morning
  appeared. And as the Egyptians fled into it, the Lord threw the Egyptians
  into the midst of the sea. The waters returned and covered the chariots and
  the horsemen; of all the host of Pharaoh that had followed them into the
  sea, not one of them remained. But the people of Israel walked on dry
  ground through the sea, the waters being a wall to them on their right hand
  and on their left. Thus the Lord saved Israel that day from the hand of the
  Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore.

  Exodus 14:31 - When Israel saw the great power which the Lord had used
  against the Egyptians, the people feared the Lord, and they believed (H539
  'aman) in the Lord and in His servant Moses.

|  :  539  'aman
| 
|   a primitive root; properly, to build up or support; to foster
|   as a parent or nurse; figuratively to render (or be) firm or
|   faithful, to trust or believe, to be permanent or quiet;
|   morally to be true or certain; once ([[https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Isaiah%2030%3A21&version=ESV][Isa. 30:21]];
|   interchangeable with 541) to go to the right hand:--hence,
|   assurance, believe, bring up, establish, + fail, be faithful
|   (of long continuance, stedfast, sure, surely, trusty,
|    verified), nurse, (-ing father), (put), trust, turn to the
|    right.
|    see HEBREW for 0541

  Exodus 15:2 - The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my
  salvation; this is my God, and I will praise him, my father's God, and I
  will exalt him.

Justification and redemption are a total gift:

  Romans 3:21-26 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

Justification by works/obedience and justification by so-called 'faith alone'
is, in my opinion, not a dichotomy, because all the good works we do as a
consequence of being redeemed are a gift to us - us being in Him.

Salvation is the gift, and faith implies an obedient heart. Works can be dead
works when they're not done in faith. Faith is what justifies. But faith
works. Faith requires obedience to God. Faithless works do not justify. The
works here that Paul speaks of are the works of the person who has been
saved. It's Jesus' work on the cross which has brought us salvation:

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved (G4982 sozo) through
  faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result
  of works (G2041 ergon), so that no one may boast. (ESV)

|  :  4982  sozo  sode'-zo
| 
|   from a primary sos (contraction for obsolete saos, "safe"); to save,
|   i.e. deliver or protect (literally or figuratively):--heal, preserve,
|   save (self), do well, be (make) whole.

|  :  2041  ergon  er'-gon
| 
|   from a primary (but obsolete) ergo (to work); toil (as an effort or
|   occupation); by implication, an act:--deed, doing, labour, work.

I believe it's Jesus' works primarily, and that obedience on our part is an
inevitable consequence of our redemption which is a gift to us, so to say we
are justified by works (and James refers to Rahab who is mentioned in Hebrews
11) is really to say justified by obedience, but obedience is just a heart
attitude that is part of faith and any work done in obedience is nothing to
boast about because it is God who gives us instruction to obey:

  James 2:24 - You see that a person is justified (G1344 dikaioo) by works
  (G2041 ergon) and not by faith alone. (ESV)

|  :  1344  dikaioo  dik-ah-yo'-o
| 
|   from 1342; to render (i.e. show or regard as) just or innocent:--free,
|   justify(-ier), be righteous.
|   see GREEK for 1342

Read
https://www.hopefaithprayer.com/rahab-harlot-genealogy-christ/

Since it's faith in Him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord that matters
for justification, those who trust and obey God out of obedient faith are
justified:

  Romans 4:23-25 - But the words it was counted to him were not written for
  his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in
  him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our
  trespasses and raised for our justification. (ESV)

 1. The obedience of faith

A person must be at least willing to do His will - obedience is at the
essence of faith:

  John 7:17 - If anyone is willing to do His will, he will know of the
  teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from Myself.

I think Ephesians 2:8-9 when it says 'through faith' doesn't actually
exclude obedience (obeying Jesus), because I think obedience is intrinsic
to faith.

  Exodus 14:14-16 - The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be
  silent. The Lord said to Moses, Why do you cry to me? Tell the people
  of Israel to go forward. Lift up your staff, and stretch out your hand
  over the sea and divide it, that the people of Israel may go through
  the sea on dry ground.

The Israelites didn't "work for God" as they obeyed God to walk through
the Red Sea. Walking in obedience is not the same as "working".

When it says "not a result of works", I believe it means something more
like, "even if works were tied into the obedient faith, it's by grace".
If a person's saving faith included works then that is fine.

  I Corinthians 4:7 - For who sees anything different in you? What do you
  have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you
  boast as if you did not receive it? (ESV)

Our works have been gifted to us by God's grace - works of deed and word:

  Ephesians 2:10 - For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus
  for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in
  them. (ESV)

We're supposed to do good works of faith by Jesus' power so that Jesus'
name is glorified - and those works done in Jesus' power are entirely
given by grace to us:

  II Thessalonians 1:11-12 - To this end we always pray for you, that our
  God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve
  for good and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our
  Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the
  grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

God chose us and called us out of darkness into His marvelous light to
proclaim His excellencies:

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy
  nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the
  excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous
  light. (ESV)

Faith-in-God is hearing God's word and believing it, and even acting on
it, or at least the readiness to act on it. A person may act on faith in
their heart by arriving at conviction. But it has to be faith in the
truth. Then, like Peter stepping out on the water, or like the woman at
the well going in to town to tell people about Jesus, or turning from
sinful things, it produces more obedience.

  Matthew 14:27-32 - But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Take
  heart; it is I. Do not be afraid. And Peter answered him, Lord, if it
  is you, command me to come to you on the water. He said, Come. So Peter
  got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to Jesus. But when
  he saw the wind, he was afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out,
  Lord, save me. Jesus immediately reached out his hand and took hold of
  him, saying to him, O you of little faith, why did you doubt? And when
  they got into the boat, the wind ceased.

And there is an amount of faith, and true belief is all that's required
to be saved, but Faith is so tightly linked to Obedience like Faith is
linked to Hope. True belief is enough because it accepts what Jesus says,
as a child believes. But I don't think this discounts that the same faith
continues and increases through obedience.

Some people never seem to arrive:

  II Timothy 3:6-9 - For among them are those who creep into households
  and capture weak women, burdened with sins and led astray by various
  passions, always learning and never able to arrive at a knowledge of
  the truth. Just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these men also
  oppose the truth, men corrupted in mind and disqualified regarding the
  faith. But they will not get very far, for their folly will be plain to
  all, as was that of those two men.

But the ones who do arrive actually follow the teaching:

  II Timothy 3:10-13 - You, however, have followed my teaching, my
  conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my
  steadfastness, my persecutions and sufferings that happened to me at
  Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra—which persecutions I endured; yet
  from them all the Lord rescued me. Indeed, all who desire to live a
  godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted, while evil people and
  impostors will go on from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived.

A changed heart is essential to be saved, I think, because it must
produce more obedience. The Apostle Paul drives home His point that we
must continue to obey Christ:

  II Corinthians 10:5-6 - We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion
  raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to
  obey Christ, being ready to punish every disobedience, when your
  obedience is complete. (ESV)

Hebrews describes faith as the hope and conviction we need to draw near
to God because we need to believe that He exists and that He rewards
those who seek him.

  Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen.

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him.

The whole chapter of Hebrews 11 also describes many 'acts' of faith.

  I Corinthians 13:13 - So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three;
  but the greatest of these is love.

  1 Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure
  heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

18. Faith in God

youtube.com: Theology is for Everyone J I Packer @time: 43 min 14 sec
What's faith? Faith is trusting God's promises. Faith is trusting God's Son.
Faith is trusting God himself as now our heavenly Father. Faith believes,
faith trusts, faith turns in obedience to God, and faith lives touching the
invisible, touching the realities of God from this time on as long as life
lasts in this world.

  Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen. (ESV)

  Matthew 21:21-22 - And Jesus answered them, Truly, I say to you, if you
  have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the
  fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, Be taken up and thrown into
  the sea, it will happen. And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive,
  if you have faith. (ESV)

I think it's dangerous to stop there with describing faith because our faith
should be built up trusting in God's Word, and corrected by God's Word.

18.1. Only with God are all things possible for one who believes. Our faith must
be faith 'with God', and our faith should in accordance with His will

  Romans 8:31 - What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who
  can be against us? (ESV)

With faith the impossible is possible, but not without God making it happen:

  Matthew 17:20 - He said to them, Because of your little faith. For truly, I
  say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to
  this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will
  be impossible for you. (ESV)

With God, the impossible is possible. I think this is saying that to be in
accordance with God's will is an intrinsic quality of faith:

  Mark 10:27 - Jesus looked at them and said, With man it is impossible, but
  not with God. For all things are possible with God. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:26 - But Jesus looked at them and said, With man this is
  impossible, but with God all things are possible. (ESV)

All things are possible for those who trust in God, trust in Jesus, trust
God, trust the Only True God:

  Mark 9:23 - And Jesus said to him, If you can! All things are possible for
  one who believes. (ESV)

But our faith, as Christians, should be while willing God's will. We can ask
God for things, but we should desire His will be done:

  Mark 14:36 - And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you.
  Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will. (ESV)

18.1.1. We should have faith for what is according to His will

  I John 5:14-15 - And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that
  if we ask anything according to his will he hears us. And if we know that
  he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we
  have asked of him. (ESV)

This guy supplicated to Jesus. Did he pray to Jesus? Maybe that's what Jesus
meant by prayer:

  Mark 9:23-29 - And Jesus said to him, If you can! All things are possible
  for one who believes. Immediately the father of the child cried out and
  said, I believe; help my unbelief! And when Jesus saw that a crowd came
  running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, You mute and
  deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again. And
  after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out, and the boy was
  like a corpse, so that most of them said, He is dead. But Jesus took him by
  the hand and lifted him up, and he arose. And when he had entered the
  house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could we not cast it out? And
  he said to them, This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer.
  (ESV)

Also, one other interesting note is Jesus commanded the demon to come out and
to never reenter again.

Also, when we pray, we will for God's will to be done:

  Matthew 6:9-12 - Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be
  your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we
  also have forgiven our debtors. (ESV)

18.2. Faith should be built up on trusting the Word of God

By Faith we believe the Word of God which says that Yahweh created the
universe by His Word:

  Hebrews 11:3 - By faith we understand that the universe was created by the
  word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are
  visible. (ESV)

  Psalms 33:6 - By the word of the LORD the heavens were made, and by the
  breath of his mouth all their host. (ESV)

Believe God's prophets:

  II Chronicles 20:20 - And they rose early in the morning and went out into
  the wilderness of Tekoa. And when they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and
  said, Hear me, Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem! Believe in the LORD your
  God, and you will be established; believe his prophets, and you will
  succeed. (ESV)

When we are living our lives trusting in God, believing that He exists and
rewards those who seek Him, I feel like God builds our house, and our faith:

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

Jesus is the Rock:

  I Corinthians 10:4 - and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank
  from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. (ESV)

Belief is important (and is an initial act of obedience):

  Matthew 16:15-18 - He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon
  Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus
  answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not
  revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you
  are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell
  shall not prevail against it. (ESV)

Obedience is important:

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

We believe the Lord Jesus is who He is, the Christ, the Son of the living
God, and Jesus builds the house as we obey Him.

18.3. We should have minds that, by testing, we can discern the will of God, and
act in faith according to God's will as far as we can discern

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

18.4. Faith that has been built up in God's will produces miracles

  Mark 11:23 - Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, Be taken
  up and thrown into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes
  that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him. (ESV)

  Matthew 17:20 - He said to them, Because of your little faith. For truly, I
  say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to
  this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will
  be impossible for you. (ESV)

  Matthew 21:21-22 - And Jesus answered them, Truly, I say to you, if you
  have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the
  fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, Be taken up and thrown into
  the sea, it will happen. And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive,
  if you have faith. (ESV)

  Luke 17:6 - And the Lord said, If you had faith like a grain of mustard
  seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, Be uprooted and planted in the
  sea, and it would obey you. (ESV)

18.5. This man trusted Jesus' word and acted on it - He had faith in Jesus

The guy believed Jesus and acted on it:

  John 4:48-50 - So Jesus said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders you
  will not believe. The official said to him, Sir, come down before my child
  dies. Jesus said to him, Go; your son will live. The man believed the word
  that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. (ESV)

  Romans 10:17 - So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of
  Christ. (ESV)

18.6. This man had faith to be made well. Paul the Apostle was also acting in
faith

  Acts 14:8-10 - Now at Lystra there was a man sitting who could not use his
  feet. He was crippled from birth and had never walked. He listened to Paul
  speaking. And Paul, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to
  be made well, said in a loud voice, Stand upright on your feet. And he
  sprang up and began walking. (ESV)

18.7. Jesus, with compassion for the man, and faith in God, sternly commanded the
unclean spirit to leave

  Mark 9:19 - And he answered them, O faithless generation, how long am I to
  be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him to me. (ESV)

All things are possible for those who trust in God, trust in Jesus, trust
God, trust the Only True God:

  Mark 9:23 - And Jesus said to him, If you can! All things are possible for
  one who believes. (ESV)

  Mark 9:22-25 - And it has often cast him into fire and into water, to
  destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us.
  And Jesus said to him, If you can! All things are possible for one who
  believes. Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, I
  believe; help my unbelief! And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running
  together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, You mute and deaf
  spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again. (ESV)

18.8. healing / deliverance ministries

18.8.1. I feel like we should have compassion when we are serving others, even
in healing / deliverance ministries

  Matthew 15:32 - Then Jesus called his disciples to him and said, I have
  compassion on the crowd because they have been with me now three days and
  have nothing to eat. And I am unwilling to send them away hungry, lest they
  faint on the way. (ESV)

  Jesus had genuine compassion while performing miracles, and He had reasons
  too:

    • Mt 9:36 - When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because
      they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. (ESV)
    • Mt 14:14 - When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had
      compassion on them and healed their sick. (ESV)
    • Mt 15:32 - Then Jesus called his disciples to him and said, I have
      compassion on the crowd because they have been with me now three days
      and have nothing to eat. And I am unwilling to send them away hungry,
      lest they faint on the way. (ESV)
    • Mk 6:34 - When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had
      compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd.
      And he began to teach them many things. (ESV)
    • Mk 8:2 - I have compassion on the crowd, because they have been with me
      now three days and have nothing to eat. (ESV)
    • Mk 9:22 - And it has often cast him into fire and into water, to
      destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help
      us. (ESV)
    • Lk 7:13 - And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said
      to her, Do not weep. (ESV)

youtube.com: God will use these moments, it wasn't for nothing @time: 2 min
52 sec
Why do we have to endure these things? Why do we have to go through difficult
times? Well, because it gives you context and perspective for what other
people are also dealing with. So in the gospels we read many times that Jesus
had compassion on them and then he healed them. Jesus had compassion on them
and then he healed them. Now through my journey in a wheelchair my eyes have
been opened like never before, for because of the things that I go through I
have compassion on other people that are also dealing with the same things.
So when when I pray for someone that's in a wheelchair that has a spinal cold
cord injury I know what they are going through because I have been through
the same things.

Likewise, we should have compassion:

  Lk 10:33 - But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when
  he saw him, he had compassion. (ESV)

18.9. Deliverance

Faith in God is ultimately all you need, like Jesus.

18.9.1. A simple command should work, with faith

  Mark 9:25 - And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he
  rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, You mute and deaf spirit, I
  command you, come out of him and never enter him again. (ESV)

  Matthew 12:28 - But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons,
  then the kingdom of God has come upon you. (ESV)

  Luke 10:19 - Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and
  scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you.
  (ESV)

  Mark 1:39 - And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their
  synagogues and casting out demons. (ESV)

18.9.2. We can and should use Jesus' name to cast out demons - There is power
in the name of Jesus

  Luke 10:17 - The seventy-two returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the
  demons are subject to us in your name! (ESV)

  Luke 9:49-55 - John answered, Master, we saw someone casting out demons in
  your name, and we tried to stop him, because he does not follow with us.
  But Jesus said to him, Do not stop him, for the one who is not against you
  is for you. When the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face
  to go to Jerusalem. And he sent messengers ahead of him, who went and
  entered a village of the Samaritans, to make preparations for him. But the
  people did not receive him, because his face was set toward Jerusalem. And
  when his disciples James and John saw it, they said, Lord, do you want us
  to tell fire to come down from heaven and consume them? But he turned and
  rebuked them. (ESV)

  Luke 10:17 - The seventy-two returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the
  demons are subject to us in your name! (ESV)

  Acts 19:13-15 - Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists undertook to
  invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying,
  I adjure you by the Jesus, whom Paul proclaims. Seven sons of a Jewish high
  priest named Sceva were doing this. But the evil spirit answered them,
  Jesus I know, and Paul I recognize, but who are you? (ESV)

18.9.3. Christians can be afflicted by demons

This is a demon of harassment. I've also seemed to be afflicted with a demon
of harassment (harassing dreams) and potentially others quite often during
the last 2 years as I've become vocal about my testimony of Jesus and trying
to follow Jesus. But I'll be getting some deliverance tonight. I command all
unclean spirits to come out of me, stay away from me, to leave me and never
return or enter me again in Jesus Christ's name:

  II Corinthians 12:7 - So to keep me from being too elated by the surpassing
  greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a
  messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from being too elated. (ESV)

I have been harassed and attacked by demons relentlessly right up to today
<2024-12-07 Sat 10:34>, and I've been able to notice it when in the past,
before I had received correction by the Scripture, and before I was
born-again of the Spirit, I was unable to see it. These strange, lying,
harassing dreams which have been slamming my mind all through the night and
wake me up in the morning come from demons. Spirits that do not confess Jesus
Christ has come in the flesh? All demons. The constant and continual run-ins
I've had with people who speak antichrist, antibiblical, demonic things to
me? Demons working through people.

youtube.com: How to Be Delivered | Sermon {@DerekPrinceMinistries} @time: 23
min 38 sec
Demons defile. They make us feel dirty and unclean. They project evil, impure
images and thoughts and words into our minds. I have talked with people at
various times who said, “Just when I am getting closest to the Lord. When I
really want to worship Him, these horrible things come into my mind.” And I
said, “You can be sure it’s a demon.” Anything that wants to keep you from
worshiping God is a demon. … Another thing about demons is they operate in
gangs. When one gets in it opens the door for the next.

List of characteristic activities of demons:

• They entice
• They harass
• They torment
• They compel
• They enslave
• Demons defile
• They deceive
• Demons make people weak or sick or tired or kill them

  Isaiah 61:1-3 - The Spirit of the Lord GOD is upon me, because the LORD has
  anointed me to bring good news to the poor; he has sent me to bind up the
  brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the
  prison to those who are bound; to proclaim the year of the LORD's favor,
  and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who mourn; to grant to
  those who mourn in Zion— to give them a beautiful headdress instead of
  ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise
  instead of a faint spirit; that they may be called oaks of righteousness,
  the planting of the LORD, that he may be glorified. (ESV)

Call on Jesus to be delivered:

  Joel 2:32 - And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name
  of the LORD shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall
  be those who escape, as the LORD has said, and among the survivors shall be
  those whom the LORD calls. (ESV)

Three objectives of demons:

• Torment and torture
• Keep you from knowing Christ as Saviour
• Keep you from serving effectively

  Ephesians 6:12 - For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against
  the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this
  present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly
  places. (ESV)

youtube.com: How to Be Delivered | Sermon {@DerekPrinceMinistries} @time: 36
min 5 sec

18.9.4. Deliverance on oneself (according to Derek Prince)

Try to meet these conditions:

 1. Be humble
 2. Be honest
 3. Confess faith in Christ
 4. Confess any known sin
 5. Repent of all sin
 6. Break with all occult, curses and secret societies
 7. Forgive others
 8. Expel - breathe out

  Proverbs 28:13 - Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but
  he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy. (ESV)

18.9.5. Using Jesus' name with faith

The name of Jesus Christ, Messiah, used to cast out a demon from someone who
was unwilling:

  Acts 16:18 - And this she kept doing for many days. Paul, having become
  greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, I command you in the name
  of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And it came out that very hour. (ESV)

18.9.6. Why some people are not delivered (according to Derek Prince)

For not meeting the conditions. It's not so much a test of your spiritual
power. It's a test of whether or not you've met the conditions. When
performing deliverance on others, don't focus on yourself. Focus on those
people meeting the conditions. You may feel yourself a little midget, but
you're representing a victorious Christ.

 1. Lack of repentance - There is no guarantee to anybody who is not willing
to repent.
 2. Lack of desperation - Deliverance is for the desperate. Summed up in one
word 'passivity.' And many times you've got to do something to prod the
person who wants to be delivered. Christ has given us authority over
human spirits but not over the human will. You cannot will for the other
person. The person has to will for them self. I'm desperate.
 3. Wrong motives. We are not delivered in order to get off the hook. We're
delivered to serve the LORD. James 4:3 - You ask and do not receive,
because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions. (ESV) youtube.com:
How To Expel The Enemy | Basics Of Deliverance Pt. 2 | Derek Prince
@time: 27 min 14 sec People who come to get off the hook do not qualify
for deliverance.
 4. Self-centeredness. Desire for attention. Some people don't get delivered
because they wouldn't be the center of attention anymore. Some of the
chronic cases of deliverance never want to get delivered because they're
poor, neglected, rejected people. This is the only time they get the
center of the stage. One thing you're notice about all people who are
focused by demons is that in some way or other they are self-centered. In
fact, self-centeredness is an invitation to demon attention. Sometimes
you just have to let the person go and say, "Listen, you've had enough.
You can do it for yourself and if you don't do it for yourself, nobody
else is going to do it for you."
• We can do this for ourself.
 5. Failure to break with the occult. That includes getting rid of occult
objects. Anything that savours a supersition is demonic. Moses said if
you bring an accursed thing into your house you become accursed like it.
Most Christians need to go through their homes and clean out a lot of
rubbish. I make it a principle, I don't want to keep in my house anything
that dishonours Jesus Christ or honours satan.
• Deuteronomy 7:26 - And you shall not bring an abominable thing into
your house and become devoted to destruction like it. You shall
utterly detest and abhor it, for it is devoted to destruction. (ESV)
 6. Failure to sever evil soulish relationships. Sometimes you have to break
some relationships; if they're evil, if they're binding, if they're gooey
- a kind of sloppy sentimentality that isn't honest.
• I rebuke in Jesus Christ's name that anti-relationship spirit which
has been attacking my relationships which were everything to do with
love and honesty and truth, and nothing to do with dishonest sloppy
sentimentality.
 7. Under a curse. Will not be delivered or healed until the curse is broken.
• Any curses against me shall be broken in Jesus Christ's name.
 8. Failure to confess a specific sin. Abortion has to be confessed as
murder.
 9. Not "separated" by water baptism
• People who are not water baptised (in Derek Princes' opinion) do not
qualify to stay free.
10. Part of a larger battle requiring corporate action. Some people are
satan's battlefield (this is definitely me), and satan will not let them
go because of what they are themselves but because of what they stand
for. There are people for who the whole body has to take responsibility.
I need prayer to break these chains.

18.9.7. How to keep your deliverance

 1. Make Jesus Lord in every area of my life.
• I had a dream last night <2024-07-02 Tue> which said someone other
than Jesus was my Lord (if I recall correctly), among other
harassing dreams. I rebuke it in Jesus Christ's name. Jesus is my
Lord and Saviour.
• youtube.com: Chris Tomlin - I Will Follow With Lyrics
• youtube.com: Sanctify Christ as Lord
 2. Garment of Praise.
• Isaiah 61:3 - To grant those who mourn in Zion, Giving them a
garland instead of ashes, The oil of gladness instead of mourning,
The mantle of praise instead of a spirit of fainting. So they will
be called oaks of righteousness, The planting of the LORD, that He
may be glorified. (NASB)
• youtube.com: Mighty to Save - Hillsong Worship
 3. Put on the full Armour of God
 4. Live by God's Word.
• Matthew 4:4 - But he answered, It is written, Man shall not live by
bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.
(ESV)
 5. Submit to God and resist satan.
• James 4:7 - Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil,
and he will flee from you. (ESV)
 6. Right fellowship. Our fellowship is an acid test of where we are at in
our spiritual life
 7. Come under discipline.
• I Samuel 15:23 - For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and
presumption is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected
the word of the LORD, he has also rejected you from being king.
(ESV)
• Rebellion is as divination/witchcraft. Most Christians indulge their
moods and their whims and their fancies. We are not free to do that.
It's just as dangerous to do that as it is to indulge your sexual
impulses. You are not free to do it.
 8. Make Jesus central.
• When satan is cast out, we need to fill the vacuum with Jesus. Focus
on Jesus.
• John 12:31-32 - Now is the judgment of this world; now will the
ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the
earth, will draw all people to myself. (ESV)

18.9.8. Prayer by Derek Prince

youtube.com: How To Expel The Enemy | Basics Of Deliverance Pt. 2 | Derek
Prince @time: 48 min 48 sec
I'm going to lead you in a prayer in which you're going to have the
opportunity to humble yourself, to come to Jesus and to affirm that you've
met the conditions. I'll put in your mouth the words. You'll renounce the
occult and every kind of contact with satanic power. You'll forgive every
other person who ever harmed you or wronged you. You'll release yourself from
every curse and you'll have to do that in faith without the understanding.
And then you'll present yourself as a candidate for deliverance. And when
you've said the prayer and met all the conditions. The last thing you'll say
is Amen. And when you've said Amen, don't do any more praying. It's very
religious to pray. Sounds good, but as long as you are praying, you're
keeping the demons inside. They can't get out past your prayer. Don't speak
in tongues. Speaking in tongues is wonderful, but it has the same effect, it
keeps the demons inside. It's like when the ambulance or the police car goes
down the road with its sirens blaring and its lights flashing. Everything
else gets off to the side and lets it go past. That's how demons get out.
Make way for them. Release them. Let them go out. Faith without works is
dead. So don't stand there passive when you've said the prayer, waiting for
something to happen. Do one very simple thing. Begin to breathe out. Expel.
And you'll find if you have a problem, in a short while it will be more than
mere human breath that is coming out. That's what you're after. Now when that
happens, you might become undignified. You might not act in a very religious
way. If you decide to be dignified and religious, you'll lose what you prayed
for. It's your option. I suggest you turn loose and get it out. I've told
people the devil is no gentleman. He comes in uninvited and he usually has to
be kicked out. Kick him out with everything you've got. Don't spare him. Hate
him. Listen, it's no sin to hate the devil. It's a sin not to hate the devil.
To be passive and indifferent is sinful.

|  Now we are praying to Jesus the deliverer.
|  And I would like you to say these words;
|  They're all taken out of the Bible
|  and what I have taught.
| 
|      Lord Jesus Christ...
|      I believe that you are the Son of God
|      and the only way to God.
|      That You died on the cross for my sins,
|       and rose again from the dead.
|       I come to You now for mercy
|       and for forgiveness.
|       I believe You do forgive me
|       and receive me as Your child.
|       And because You receive me...
|       I receive myself as a child of God.
|       And now Lord, You know the
|       special problem that I have.
|       The demonic influences that torment me.
|       Lord, I want to meet Your conditions
|       and receive Your deliverance.
|       First of all,
|       I forgive every other person
|       who ever harmed me or wronged me.
|       I forgive them all now.
|       Pause for a moment and quietly
|       name the persons you need to forgive.
|       We're going on. Lord,
|       I have forgiven all these persons.
|       I have laid down all bitterness...
|       all resentment, all hatred...
|       and all rebellion.
|       And I believe You've forgiven me.
|       I thank You for it.
|       I also renounce
|       every contact with Satan...
|       with occult powers,
|       with secret societies...
|       with anything in Satan's territory.
|       I repent of being on that territory...
|       and I turn my back on it now.
|       Also Lord, if there's
|       a curse over my life...
|       I thank You that on the cross...
|       You were made a curse...
|       that I might be
|       redeemed from the curse...
|       and receive the blessing.
|       And I claim that now.
|       Release from the curse
|       and entering into the blessing.
|       And now Lord, I want to come against...
|       any evil spirit in me...
|       that occupies any
|       area of my personality.
|       I want to tell You I hate them.
|       They are my enemies.
|       I will not make peace with them.
|       I will not compromise with them.
|       They will have no more place in me.
|       I turn against them now...
|       and in the authority
|       of Your name, Jesus...
|       I command them to leave me.
|       I expel them right now
|       in the name of Jesus.
|       Amen.
|  
|   No more praying. I'll do the final
|   prayer, you do the letting go.
|   Begin to expel right now in faith.
|  
|       Now Lord, as your servant and
|       representative, under the authority
|       of the local leadership I take dominion
|       in Jesus' name over every evil spirit
|       that has been renounced and I
|       command them to go in Jesus' name.
|       Release these people
|       and go from them now
|       in the mighty, all-prevailing
|       name of Jesus Christ.
|       I affirm that Jesus Christ
|       is Lord over this gathering.
|       That He has defeated Satan. That He
|       holds the keys of death and of Hades.
|       That all authority has been given
|       unto Him in heaven and in earth.
|       Satan, you are subject to us through the
|       name of Jesus. You have to obey us.
|       You have to go from these people.
|       You have no options.
|       The Bible says you must leave,
|       and leave you must, Satan.
|       In the name of Jesus. Amen.
|  
|   Now just get a full deliverance.
|   Release yourself from everything.
|   Once the anointing is here
100: you can get rid of everything
101: and it's much more difficult
102: to do it when the anointing lifts.
103: That's right,
104: don't bother about other people.
105: Don't hold onto your dignity,
106: it'll come back in a few moments.
107: That's right. Thank You, Lord.
108: Thank You, Father.
109: Thank You, Lord Jesus.
110: Praise Your holy name.
111: Praise Your name, Lord.

18.10. Deliverance/exorcism

Typically, one person casts out the demon from another person. But we can
also perform the exorcism on ourself. But we should have the following
conditions met.

Conditions:

 1. Be humble
 2. Be honest
 3. Confess faith in Christ
 4. Confess any known sin
 5. Repent of all sin
 6. Break with all occult, curses and secret societies
 7. Forgive others
 8. Expel - breathe out

18.10.1. Good songs for getting rid of demons (speak the lyrics in your head or
out loud, especially say them in your heart)

The Biblical basis for this:

  Proverbs 4:23 - Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the
  springs of life. (ESV)

  Proverbs 23:7 - For as he thinks within himself, so he is. He says to you,
  “Eat and drink!” But his heart is not with you. (NASB)

This morning (<2024-09-14 Sat>) I had this running through my head during my
sleep and as I was waking up - I love it when God does that. I feel much
cleaner today. This morning <2024-09-18 Wed> (4 days later) I was hit with
some spiritual attack (including strange dreams) so I purposefully stayed up
singing this song in my heart and mind and as I did, trying to 'will from the
heart' to desire to do God's will and I was able to beat the spiritual attack
back this morning :):

youtube.com: PURIFY MY HEART | Praise & Worship Song lyric video

Purify my heart. Let me be as gold and precious silver. Purify my heart. Let
me be as gold, pure gold.

Refiner's fire, My heart's one desire is to be holy, set apart for You, Lord.
I choose to be holy, set apart for You, my Master, ready to do Your will

When I come under spiritual attack, I think through the lyrics to these songs
in my mind and believe them, and this seems to make the attack stop:

• youtube.com: Charity Gayle - I Speak Jesus {feat. Steven Musso} Live
• multitracks.com: I Speak Jesus by Charity Gayle | MultiTracks.com
• I just want to speak the name of Jesus till every dark
addiction starts to break, declaring there is hope and there is
freedom. I speak Jesus
• youtube.com: Nothing But the Blood {Hymn} - Victory Worship, AWAKE84
• hymnal.net: Hymn: What can wash away my sin
• What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus; What
can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus.
• youtube.com: Jesus Christ Is Lord Reprise
• genius.com: Paul Wilbur - Jesus Christ Is Lord {Reprise} Lyrics |
Genius Lyrics
• Yeshua is Lord. His blood has overcome the enemy of our soul

I also put on a piece of paper over my body like this:

|  Heavenly Father,
|  deliver me please and ... please in Jesus Christ's name I ask,
|  AMEN!!
|  Deliver me from these harassing spirits in Jesus Christ's name I ask. AMEN!!
| 
|  I rebuke those harassing spirits in Jesus Christ's name.
|  I rebuke the spirits of ... and ... in Jesus Chrits's name.

18.10.2. We can rebuke the devil with Jesus' authority

youtube.com: Should We Ever Speak Directly to the Devil?

Mark 1:25 we know that Jesus had authority over demons and that he spoke to
them like, "Be silent and come out of him." And we know that he gave this
authority to his disciples in Mark 6:7. He gave them authority over the
unclean spirits and we know that when the 72 disciples returned, not just the
12, but the 72 disciples returned to report about their ministry, they said,
"Even the demons are subject to us in your name." The words "in your name"
mean that that's how they cast out the demons. Jesus cast them out in his own
authority, the disciples cast them out in the name of Jesus. "Get out in the
name of Jesus" is probably what they said.

Acts 16:18 - And this she kept doing for many days. Paul, having become
greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, I command you in the name of
Jesus Christ to come out of her. And it came out that very hour. (ESV)

So when 1 Peter 5:9 and James 4:7 say that we should resist the devil, I
think those commands in I Peter and James include those times when the
demonic assault on you or your loved one is so plain and so blatant that you
should say something like, "No, no in the name of Jesus leave me alone." Or,
"Leave my child alone in the name of Jesus. Be gone Satan, get out of this
house."

Then we turn to Christ. Oh yes, we we turn to Christ. This is the step that's
probably neglected. At that moment we turn to Christ, we turn to the promise
of Jesus: "I'll never leave you, I'll never forsake you. I'll always be with
you. I bought you. You're mine. No one can snatch you out of my hand. I will
help you. I'll be your Shield."

  Mark 1:25 - But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent, and come out of him!
  (ESV)

Example
youtube.com: Deliverance from the Kundalini spirit

18.10.3. Demons are not rare

  Mark 1:39 - And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their
  synagogues and casting out demons. (ESV)

18.10.4. Demons consider a persons' body their home

• Sinful thoughts/behaviour attracts demons.

  Matthew 12:43-45 - When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it
  passes through waterless places seeking rest, but finds none. Then it says,
  I will return to my house from which I came. And when it comes, it finds
  the house empty, swept, and put in order. Then it goes and brings with it
  seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there,
  and the last state of that person is worse than the first. So also will it
  be with this evil generation. (ESV)

18.10.5. Renounce the ungodliness

  Titus 2:11-14 - For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for
  all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and
  to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,
  waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God
  and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all
  lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who
  are zealous for good works. (ESV)

18.10.6. This demon came out within the hour

It's often not instantaneous.

  Acts 16:18 - And this she kept doing for many days. Paul, having become
  greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, I command you in the name
  of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And it came out that very hour. (ESV)

18.10.7. This demon was resistant

After already commanding the unclean spirit to come out of the man, the
unclean spirit resisted and then Jesus asked the demon its name.

  Luke 8:27-30 - When Jesus had stepped out on land, there met him a man from
  the city who had demons. For a long time he had worn no clothes, and he had
  not lived in a house but among the tombs. When he saw Jesus, he cried out
  and fell down before him and said with a loud voice, What have you to do
  with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you, do not torment me. For
  he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. (For many a
  time it had seized him. He was kept under guard and bound with chains and
  shackles, but he would break the bonds and be driven by the demon into the
  desert.) Jesus then asked him, What is your name? And he said, Legion, for
  many demons had entered him. (ESV)

Jesus was saying to the man, "Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!" The
demon then responded. Then Jesus asked the demon its name.

  Mark 5:7-13 - And crying out with a loud voice, he said, What have you to
  do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure you by God, do not
  torment me. For he was saying to him, Come out of the man, you unclean
  spirit! And Jesus asked him, What is your name? He replied, My name is
  Legion, for we are many. And he begged him earnestly not to send them out
  of the country. Now a great herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside,
  and they begged him, saying, Send us to the pigs; let us enter them. So he
  gave them permission. And the unclean spirits came out, and entered the
  pigs, and the herd, numbering about two thousand, rushed down the steep
  bank into the sea and were drowned in the sea. (ESV)

18.10.8. All believers can cast out demons

  Mark 16:17 - And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name
  they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues; (ESV)

  Luke 10:19 - Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and
  scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you.
  (ESV)

18.10.9. We must be spiritually-minded, not earthly-minded

  I Corinthians 2:14 - The natural person does not accept the things of the
  Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand
  them because they are spiritually discerned. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:16 - From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to
  the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we
  regard him thus no longer. (ESV)

  James 2:26 - For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith
  apart from works is dead. (ESV)

18.10.10. Exorcism prayer by Derek Prince

Jesus' sacrifice outside Jerusalem is so that we might be sanctified through
His own blood and come into Jerusalem. I still think that there's nothing
wrong with bearing the reproach Jesus endured - in fact it's encouraged. I
think we bear His reproach in order to be sanctified and then call Jerusalem
our home:

  Hebrews 13:12-14 - So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to
  sanctify the people through his own blood. Therefore let us go to him
  outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured. For here we have no
  lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. (ESV)

  Galatians 4:25-26 - Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia; she corresponds to
  the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. But the
  Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. (ESV)

  Galatians 4:27 - For it is written, Rejoice, O barren one who does not
  bear; break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor! For the children
  of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband.
  (ESV)

  Galatians 4:28-31 - Now you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
  But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted
  him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. But what does
  the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the
  slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers,
  we are not children of the slave but of the free woman. (ESV)

• youtube.com: Spiritual Warfare on Earth - Derek Prince @time: 1 hrs 32
min 40 sec

|  You are going to affirm your faith in Christ.
|  He is the High Priest of your confession.
| 
|  Say this: "Lord Jesus Christ, I believe You
|  are the Son of God and the only way to God,
|  that You died on the cross for my sins and
|  rose again that I might be forgiven and
|  receive eternal life."
| 
|   Now we're going to deal with humbling
|   ourselves.
|  
|   "I renounce all pride and religious self-
|   righteousness, and any dignity that does not
|   come from You. I have no claim on Your mercy
|   except that You died in my place."
|  
|   Now we come to confessing sin.
|  
|   "I confess all my sins before You, and hold
|   nothing back. Especially I confess: ..."
|  
|   And now name any particular sins that which
|   the Holy Spirit has convicted you.
|  
|   Now we're going to continue with repentance.
|  
|   "I repent of all my sins. I turn away from
|   them and I turn to You LORD, for mercy and
|   forgiveness."
|  
|   Now we're going to deal with forgiving other people.
|  
|   "By a decision of my will I freely forgive all
|   who have ever harmed me or wronged me. I lay
|   down all bitterness, all resentment and all
|   hatred. Specifically I forgive: ..."
|  
|   And now say [under your breath] the names of
|   people you really need to forgive. The longer
|   you make this list, the better prospect you
|   have of deliverance. Specifically say, "I forgive...".
|   It's not difficult to forgive the person far
|   from you, but the people close to you can be
|   difficult.
|  
|   Then we deal with the occult.
|  
|   "I sever all contact I have had with the
|   occult or with all false religion,
|   particularly:"
|  
|   Now you need to name the things and if you
|   have been in freemasonry or family, specially
|   name freemasonry.
|  
|   "I commit myself to get rid of all objects
|   associated with the occult or false religion."
|  
|   Now we're going to deal with any curses that may be over your life.
|  
|   "Lord Jesus I thank You that on the cross You
|   were made a curse that I might be redeemed
|   from every curse and inherit God's blessing.
|   On that basis I ask You to release me and set
|   me free to receive the deliverance I need,
|   now."
|  
|   "I take my stand with You Lord against all
|   satan's demons. I submit to You, Lord, and I
|   resist the devil. AMEN!!"
|  
|   Now we come to the point where you expel.
|  
|   "Now I speak to any demons that have control over me."
|  
|   Now you speak to them directly.
|  
|   "I command you to go from me now in the name
|   of Jesus. I expel you. Come out in the name of
|   Jesus."
|  
|   Let them go.
|  
|   Derek Prince said, "Every evil spirit that is
|   in these people I command you to go from them
|   now."
|  
|   Now expel it. Exhale, cough it out.

18.10.11. Prayer by Isaiah Saldivar

youtube.com: Mass Deliverance Prayer - If You Need Deliverance, Watch This!
{Day 3 of 7}

18.11. Faith requires obedience - i.e. acting in faith / living by faith

  Luke 8:21 - But He answered and said to them, “My mother and My brothers
  are these who hear the word of God and do it.”

• The Holy Spirit is given to those who obey Jesus.
• The Holy Spirit is given to those who have faith in Jesus.

You can't have faith without obedience.

Song
Keith Green - To Obey Is Better Than Sacrifice (live)

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:14 - so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come
  to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through
  faith. (ESV)

We need well-grounded (faith in Jesus), well-placed (on the right stuff)
agape love for God, those in Christ, our spouse, and even called to agape
love all people with agape love, but not agape-ing the world or the world's
lusts:

  I Corinthians 13:2 - And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all
  mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove
  mountains, but have not love (26. agapé - treasuring, valuing love), I am
  nothing. (ESV)

Our hope should not be on our own lustful or idolatrous desires, but our hope
should be on God's promises:

  Proverbs 4:23 - Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the
  springs of life. (ESV)

We should hold the promises of God in our heart:

  Mark 7:18-19 - And he said to them, Then are you also without
  understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside
  cannot defile him, since it enters not his heart but his stomach, and is
  expelled? (Thus he declared all foods clean.) (ESV)

  Acts 28:27 - For the heart of this people has become dull, And with their
  ears they scarcely hear, And they have closed their eyes; Otherwise they
  might see with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with
  their heart and return, And I would heal them.”’

Actually, our faith and hope and heart's desire and our walking in faith
should really be in line with God's will, and God's plan:

  Matthew 6:9-12 - Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be
  your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we
  also have forgiven our debtors. (ESV)

|  Faith-in-God = Hope-from/in-God * Work/Love/Walking-By-Faith
| 
|  Hope-from/in-God = Belief(believing God) * Truth(God's word is Truth, Jesus is the Truth)
| 
|  Work/Love/Walking-By-Faith = Obedience * Faithfulness * Fear-of-God * Response-of-love-to-Jesus * Patient-Endurance(time)
| 
|  Obedience = Submitting to the Righteousness of God * Turning from sin, loving, showing mercy, etc.
| 
|  Fear-of-God = e.g. The poor in spirit recognise their need of God's mercy and tremble at His Word: "beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner!"
|                 Fear of God is not only about having the heart to repent from sin and "beat hand on chest and ask God for mercy", but it is also having a changed heart,
|                 endeavoring to please Christ with our actions.
|                 godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret
|  
|   Response-of-love-to-Jesus = e.g. praise, thankfulness, obeying His commandments
|  
|   L ∝ f
|   Love is proportional-to the baggage which has been forgiven
|   Love ∝ forgiven-baggage
|  
|   Obedience ∝ Love
|  
|   F = H * L
|   Faith = Hope * Love
|  
|   Faith-in-God when tested by God is found to be true Faith in God.
|   Faith-in-God must submit to the Righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ,
|   Jesus Christ having paid the price of sin, enabling a relationship with God.

  I Corinthians 13:1-8 - If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but
  have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. And if I have
  prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I
  have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.
  If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but
  have not love, I gain nothing. Love is patient and kind; love does not envy
  or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it
  is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but
  rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes
  all things, endures all things. Love never ends. As for prophecies, they
  will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will
  pass away. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 1:3 - remembering before our God and Father your work of
  faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.
  (ESV)

As the LORD's works are done in faithfulness, our work should be done in
faithfulness towards God. Everything we do should be done in faithfulness to
Him:

  Psalms 33:4 - For the word of the LORD is upright, and all his work is done
  in faithfulness. (ESV)

  Matthew 24:12-13 - And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of
  many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
  (ESV)

Even after arriving at the true knowledge through obedience, faith is further
supplemented/nourished/aided by virtue, knowledge, self-control,
steadfastness, godliness, brotherly affection and love:

  II Peter 1:3-7 - His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain
  to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his
  own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and
  very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the
  divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world
  because of sinful desire. For this very reason, make every effort to
  supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge
  with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness
  with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly
  affection with love. (ESV)

The true knowledge of Jesus grants us everything pertaining to life and
godliness, allowing us to partake in the divine nature. We should then
reinforce the divine nature with such things:

  II Peter 1:3-4 - seeing that His divine power has granted to us everything
  pertaining to life and godliness, through the true knowledge of Him who
  called us by His own glory and excellence. For by these He has granted to
  us His precious and magnificent promises, so that by them you may become
  partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in
  the world by lust. (NASB)

Because, having arrived at the true knowledge of Jesus, we are partakers of
the divine nature, in order to be fruitful we should supply to our faith
those qualities:

  II Peter 1:8 - For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they
  render you neither useless nor unfruitful in the true knowledge (G1922
  epignosis) of our Lord Jesus Christ.

|  :  1922  epignosis  ep-ig'-no-sis
| 
|   from 1921; recognition, i.e. (by implication) full discernment,
|   acknowledgement:--(ac-)knowledge(-ing, - ment).
|   see GREEK for 1921

18.11.1. Work/Love/Walking-By-Faith

  II John 1:5-6 - And now I ask you, dear lady—not as though I were writing
  you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning—that we
  love one another. And this is love, that we walk according to his
  commandments; this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the
  beginning, so that you should walk in it. (ESV)

We must love in the same way Jesus has loved us - sacrificially, obedient to
God - showing God's truthfulness, serving others:

  John 15:12 - This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have
  loved you. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:17 And he said to him, Why do you ask me about what is good?
  There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the
  commandments.

  John 14:15-21 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. Yet a
  little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me.
  Because I live, you also will live. In that day you will know that I am in
  my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has my commandments and
  keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my
  Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. (ESV)

  Matthew 22:37-40 - And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God
  with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is
  the great and first commandment. And a second is like it: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the Law and
  the Prophets.

  Mark 10:19 - You know the commandments: Do not murder, Do not commit
  adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor
  your father and mother. (ESV)

  Mark 12:28 - And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with
  one another, and seeing that he answered them well, asked him, Which
  commandment is the most important of all? (ESV)

  Mark 12:31 - The second is this: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
  There is no other commandment greater than these. (ESV)

  Luke 1:6 - And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in
  all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. (ESV)

Jesus' commandments are consistent with the rest of God's commandments:

  John 12:49-50 - For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father
  who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say and what to
  speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say,
  therefore, I say as the Father has told me. (ESV)

  John 13:34 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. (ESV)

  John 14:15 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. (ESV)

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

  John 15:12 - This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have
  loved you. (ESV)

18.11.2. Fear-of-God

  Romans 4:5-8 - And to the one who does not work but trusts him who
  justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, just as David
  also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness
  apart from works: Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not
  count his sin.

AMEN!! But this doesn't mean the other elements of working faith can't play a
part.

Without love, faith is dead:

  I Corinthians 13:1 - If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but
  have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.

  John 6:28-29 - Then they said to him, What must we do, to be doing the
  works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you
  believe (G4100 pisteuo) in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

pisteuo is obedient faith as it is the verb for faith (pistis).

  James 2:22-26 - You see that faith was active along with his works, and
  faith was completed by his works; and the Scripture was fulfilled that
  says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness-and
  he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works
  and not by faith alone. And in the same way was not also Rahab the
  prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent
  them out by another way? For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so
  also faith apart from works is dead. (ESV)

Without faith, work is dead. Whatever actions we make outside of faith is
sin:

  Romans 14:23 - But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the
  eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.

But the work of God is to believe in whom He has sent. So even believing in
Jesus is work that is done in faith:

  John 6:28-29 - Then they said to him, What must we do, to be doing the
  works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you
  believe (G4100 pisteuo) in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

18.11.3. Faith vector illustration

Deeds, love, faith, service and perseverance are not mutually exclusive.
They're all important to God and overlap:

  Revelation of John 2:19 - ‘I know your deeds, and your love and faith and
  service and perseverance, and that your deeds of late are greater than at
  first.

He loved us first, and that is why and how we love (knowing we've already
received mercy). Christ's love is not simply charity but a) it's
passing-forward Christ's love, and b) it's to relieve other's burdens (mercy,
not sacrifice):

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

  Acts 2:45 - And they were selling their possessions and belongings and
  distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 2:4 - But I have this against you, that you have left
  your first love. (NASB)

There is a relation here:

  I Corinthians 13:7 - Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all
  things, endures all things.

  1 Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart
  and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 13:13 - So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but
  the greatest of these is love.

Belief and action are like a vector.

| 
|         Faith plane                 __
|         Serving God plane            /|
|                                     /                       From past
|                                    /                          baggage          o     _
|  An obedient    __     agapé    __/       agapé             persecuting       /       /|
|  and believing   /| 1x Love      /|    2x Love               Jesus           /       /
|  heart          /               /                           to receiving    /   →   /
|    _           /               /                             forgiveness   /       /
|     /|         /               /                             and loving   |/_      /
|    o          o               o                                Jesus              o
|  
|   --------------------------------------------+-------------+----------------------------
|                                               |  Dead faith |    Impossible to be
|         Faithless plane                       |             |     simultaneously
|         Serving yourself plane                |      o      |   agapé-ing,
|         Justifying yourself plane             |             |   yoked to God  _
|              __                               | disobedient |  (led by)       /|
|               /| Dead works                   +-------------+                /
|              /                                              |    while      o
|             /                                               |              /
|            /            These are entirely worthless        |            |/_
|           x                                                 |  (led by) agapé-ing,
|                                                             |   yoked to money

Faith has 'substance/magnitude' and may be described as a vector:

• The origin of hope/belief is represented by the point.
• On the Faith plane, positive magnitude comes from trust in God
• Hope-from/in-God is the direction.
• Work/Love/Walking-By-Faith/Obedience is the magnitude.

I want to be clear, having faith in Jesus Christ is not dead faith. Dead
faith is precisely not having faith in Jesus Christ.

An obedient heart is required for it to not be 'dead faith'.

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority.

Faith in the wrong thing:

• On the Faithless plane, positive magnitude comes from trust in something
else, i.e. money or self

It's God who tests the faith, and God who justifies:

  II Corinthians 10:18 - For it is not the one who commends himself who is
  approved, but the one whom the Lord commends. (ESV)

That's why I don't like making an assertion on the exact way that God
justifies, because God is the justifier.

  Galatians 5:5 - For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait
  for the hope of righteousness.

  Galatians 5:18 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  law.

We must be doing the will of God to not be under the law:

  Psalms 143:10 - Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your good
  Spirit lead me on level ground! (ESV)

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life.

Righteousness is the free gift to be received through obedience:

  Romans 5:17 - If, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that
  one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the
  free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.
  (ESV)

Jesus made the Way - He is the Way:

  Romans 5:18-19 - Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all
  men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all
  men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by
  the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.

The Way is available to walk for everyone who is obedient.

Doing the will of Father God:

• obedience to Jesus leads to righteousness - obedience/faith to receive
the gift, even of the Spirit
• led by the Spirit, obeying Jesus' words
• being led by the Spirit and obeying Jesus' words are in
alignment and do not contradict
• slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification
• at its end, eternal life
• sanctification leading to eternal life
• sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth
• knowledge of the truth
• justification

  Romans 6:13-23 - Do not present your members to sin as instruments for
  unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been
  brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for
  righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not
  under law but under grace? By no means! Do you not know that if you present
  yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you
  obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to
  righteousness? But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed*, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. When you
  were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. But what
  fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now
  ashamed? The end of those things is death. But now that you have been set
  free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to
  sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death,
  but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

The love of the truth must be received and accepted to be saved:

  II Thessalonians 2:10 - and with all the deception of wickedness for those
  who perish, because they did not receive the love of the truth so as to be
  saved. (NASB)

People will trust in what is false:

  II Thessalonians 2:11 - For this reason God will send upon them a deluding
  influence so that they will believe (G4100 pisteuo) what is false (G5579
  pseudos), (NASB)

Those people who did not have faith in the truth but took took pleasure in
unrighteousness may be condemned:

  II Thessalonians 2:12 - in order that all may be condemned who did not
  believe (G4100 pisteuo) the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness.

But God chose some to be saved through sanctification by the Spirit and
belief in the truth:

  II Thessalonians 2:13 - But we ought always to give thanks to God for you,
  brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to
  be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.

Jesus called us to sanctified (i.e. repent from sin, and live to God). We
seek the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Interestingly, we don't seek our own
glory, but Paul says that God chose us to be sanctified by the Spirit and
belief in the truth:

  II Thessalonians 2:14 - To this he called you through our gospel, so that
  you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

|  1519 [e] 3739 [e]   2532 [e] 2564 [e]  4771 [e]
|  eis      ho         kai      ekalesen  hymas
|  εἰς      ὃ          καὶ      ἐκάλεσεν  ὑμᾶς  ,
|  to       this       also     He called you
|  Prep     RelPro-ANS Conj     V-AIA-3S  PPro-A2P

|  1223 [e] 3588 [e] 2098 [e]   1473 [e] 1519 [e] 4047 [e]
|  dia      tou      euangeliou hēmōn    eis      peripoiēsin
|  διὰ      τοῦ      εὐαγγελίου ἡμῶν  ,  εἰς      περιποίησιν
|  through  the      gospel     of us    to       [the] obtaining
|  Prep     Art-GNS  N-GNS      PPro-G1P Prep     N-AFS

of [the] glory of the Lord of us Jesus Christ:

|  1391 [e]       3588 [e] 2962 [e] 1473 [e] 2424 [e] 5547 [e]
|  doxēs          tou      Kyriou   hēmōn    Iēsou    Christou
|  δόξης          τοῦ      Κυρίου   ἡμῶν     Ἰησοῦ    Χριστοῦ  .
|  of [the] glory of the   Lord     of us    Jesus    Christ
|  N-GFS          Art-GMS  N-GMS    PPro-G1P N-GMS    N-GMS

We seek the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ, not our own glory. We should aim
not to speak on our own authority, but instead to speak the Truth from God:

  John 7:18 - The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory,
  but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him
  there is no falsehood. (ESV)

For sure, I just want to speak the truth from God, and I want to be
sanctified by the Truth, and I want to be corrected by the Truth:

  Ephesians 4:15-19 - Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up
  in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole
  body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped,
  when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds
  itself up in love. Now this I say and testify in the Lord, that you must no
  longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their minds. They are
  darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of
  the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart. They have
  become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to
  practice every kind of impurity. (ESV)

Seeking God in truth and not seeking glory from one another is a good place
to start in coming to believe. I guess that seeking the glory that comes from
the only God involves seeking to glorify God:

  John 5:44 - How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another
  and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? (ESV)

We live by the Spirit:

  Ephesians 2:18 - For through him we both have access in one Spirit to the
  Father.

We are made alive by the Spirit so we should walk by the Spirit:

  Galatians 5:25 - If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.

If we walk by the Spirit, we will not gratify the desires of the flesh:

  Galatians 5:16 - But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify
  the desires of the flesh.

There are sinning people that alienate themselves from the life of God
because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart:

  Ephesians 4:18-29 - They are darkened in their understanding, alienated
  from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their
  hardness of heart. They have become callous and have given themselves up to
  sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity.

But having been taught in Jesus, the truth which is in Jesus, to put off the
old self and to be renewed in the spirit our our mind, and put on the new
self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness:

  Ephesians 4:21-24 - assuming that you have heard about him and were taught
  in him, as the truth is in Jesus, to put off your old self, which belongs
  to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and
  to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self,
  created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness.

Speak the truth and do not sin:

  Ephesians 4:25-28 - Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of
  you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another.
  Be angry and do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger, and give
  no opportunity to the devil. Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let
  him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have
  something to share with anyone in need. (ESV)

https://www.oneplace.com/ministries/truth-for-life/listen/do-not-give-the-devil-a-foothold-part-1-of-2-1176740.html

  Ephesians 1:17 - that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of
  glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge
  of him,

The outcome of being set free from sin and becoming a slave to God is
receiving the gift of eternal life:

  Romans 8:33 - Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who
  justifies. (ESV)

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves to God, the fruit you reap leads to holiness, and the outcome
  is eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is
  eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (BSB)

Salvation is forever. Once saved, always saved. Once received eternal life,
it's forever
youtube.com: John MacArthur - How do I know if I'm really saved?

  Hebrews 7:1-25 - For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most
  High God, met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed
  him, and to him Abraham apportioned a tenth part of everything. He is
  first, by translation of his name, king of righteousness, and then he is
  also king of Salem, that is, king of peace. He is without father or mother
  or genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but
  resembling the Son of God he continues a priest forever. See how great this
  man was to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth of the spoils! And those
  descendants of Levi who receive the priestly office have a commandment in
  the law to take tithes from the people, that is, from their brothers,
  though these also are descended from Abraham. But this man who does not
  have his descent from them received tithes from Abraham and blessed him who
  had the promises. It is beyond dispute that the inferior is blessed by the
  superior. In the one case tithes are received by mortal men, but in the
  other case, by one of whom it is testified that he lives. One might even
  say that Levi himself, who receives tithes, paid tithes through Abraham,
  for he was still in the loins of his ancestor when Melchizedek met him. Now
  if perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood (for
  under it the people received the law), what further need would there have
  been for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek, rather
  than one named after the order of Aaron? For when there is a change in the
  priesthood, there is necessarily a change in the law as well. For the one
  of whom these things are spoken belonged to another tribe, from which no
  one has ever served at the altar. For it is evident that our Lord was
  descended from Judah, and in connection with that tribe Moses said nothing
  about priests. This becomes even more evident when another priest arises in
  the likeness of Melchizedek, who has become a priest, not on the basis of a
  legal requirement concerning bodily descent, but by the power of an
  indestructible life. For it is witnessed of him, You are a priest forever,
  after the order of Melchizedek. On the one hand, a former commandment is
  set aside because of its weakness and uselessness (for the law made nothing
  perfect); but on the other hand, a better hope is introduced, through which
  we draw near to God. And it was not without an oath. For those who formerly
  became priests were made such without an oath, but this one was made a
  priest with an oath by the one who said to him: The Lord has sworn and will
  not change his mind, You are a priest forever. This makes Jesus the
  guarantor of a better covenant. The former priests were many in number,
  because they were prevented by death from continuing in office, but he
  holds his priesthood permanently, because he continues forever.
  Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost (3838. pantelés - all
  complete, entire) those who draw near to God through him, since he always
  lives to make intercession for them. (ESV)

youtube.com: John Piper - Saved Forever @time: 17 min 16 sec
I am saved today and will be saved tomorrow and all eternity because Hebrews
| 25 C says He always lives to pray for me.

A person must do the will of Father God (not their own will); They must be
obedient. Faith and obedience are inseparable.

To be fruitful, a person must be further obedient after arriving at the
knowledge of the truth and supplement their faith with Christian virtues:

  II Peter 1:8 - For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they
  render you neither useless nor unfruitful in the true knowledge (G1922
  epignosis) of our Lord Jesus Christ.

19. Jesus has immortality and gives eternal life, but we must come to Him in
obedience, and follow Him, to receive it

  John 5:39-44 - You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you
  have eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me, yet you
  refuse to come to me that you may have life. I do not receive glory from
  people. But I know that you do not have the love of God within you. I have
  come in my Father's name, and you do not receive me. If another comes in
  his own name, you will receive him. How can you believe, when you receive
  glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only
  God? (ESV)

We must take hold of the eternal life to which we are called. We made the
confession to eternal life, and we must now fight the good fight of the
faith, until after being slaves to righteousness, obeying Jesus, we are
sanctified and receive eternal life.

  Hebrews 3:13-14 - But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called
  today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. For we
  share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end.
  (ESV)

  I Timothy 6:11-16 - But as for you, O man of God, flee these things. Pursue
  righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness. Fight the
  good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were
  called and about which you made the good confession in the presence of many
  witnesses. I charge you in the presence of God, who gives life to all
  things, and of Christ Jesus, who in his testimony before Pontius Pilate
  made the good confession, to keep the commandment unstained and free from
  reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, which he will
  display at the proper time—he who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the
  King of kings and Lord of lords, who alone has immortality, who dwells in
  unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or can see. To him be honor
  and eternal dominion. Amen.

  Matthew 7:21-23 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in
  your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in
  your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew you; depart from
  me, you workers of lawlessness. (ESV)

So those people doing works in Jesus' name were still disobedient, similar to
the following example:

  Leviticus 10:1-2 - Now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his
  censer and put fire in it and laid incense on it and offered unauthorized
  fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. And fire came out
  from before the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord.

  John 11:41-42 - So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes
  and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you
  always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around,
  that they may believe that you sent me.

The works have to be the will of Father God. Initially, and ongoing, this is
believing in Him whom He has sent. It's believing in Jesus, and continuing to
believe in Jesus, putting your trust in Jesus, having faith in Jesus, obeying
Jesus and submitting to the righteousness of God.

  John 6:29 - Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you believe
  in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

Being a servant of Christ from the heart is doing the will of God.

  Ephesians 6:6 - not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as
  servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,

Repenting from sin is doing the will of God.

  I Thessalonians 4:3 - For this is the will of God, your sanctification:
  that you abstain from sexual immorality;

Doing good is doing the will of God.

  I Peter 2:15 - For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should
  put to silence the ignorance of foolish people.

Doing the will of God, a person will have eternal life.

  I John 2:17 - And the world is passing away along with its desires, but
  whoever does the will of God abides forever. (ESV)

Surely, the Bible teaches that all of these together are the will of God, and
not simply one of them without the others.

19.1. Do not doubt, and believe that you have received it, even acting in a way
in which it is already received

  James 1:1-5 - James, a bond-servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To
  the twelve tribes who are dispersed abroad: Greetings. Consider it all joy,
  my brethren, when you encounter various trials, knowing that the testing of
  your faith produces endurance. And let endurance have its perfect result,
  so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. But if any of
  you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all generously and
  without reproach, and it will be given to him.

The one who does not doubt is unwavering and is not tossed around by the sea.
Therefore, it's an ongoing thing.

  James 1:6 - But he must ask in faith (G4102 pistis) without any doubting
  (G1252 diakrino), for the one who doubts (G1252 diakrino) is like the surf
  of the sea, driven and tossed by the wind. (NASB)

But for our prayer requests to be answered this way, we must be keeping His
commandments and do what pleases Him:

  I John 3:21-24 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment,
  that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another,
  just as he has commanded us. Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him,
  and he in them. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit
  whom he has given us. (ESV)

If we want our prayers answered by Father God, we must trust Jesus came from
God as we treasure Jesus and treasure His words. It's in that day (when we
are trusting Jesus and keeping His commandments, doing what pleases God),
doing God's will, whatever we may ask of the Father in Jesus' name, He will
give to us. In what day? In the day that the Father Himself loves (agape
loves) us because we have loved (agape loved) Jesus and trusted that He came
from God.

  John 16:22-27 - So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again and
  your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you. In that
  day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you
  ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Until now you have
  asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be
  full. I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is
  coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but will
  tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my name, and
  I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf; for the
  Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that
  I came from God. (ESV)

  Proverbs 14:26 - In the fear of the LORD one has strong confidence, and his
  children will have a refuge. (ESV)

Faith begins and continues:

• be walking in obedience
• no doubting
• no wavering
• no withdrawing
• no hesitating

  Mark 11:22-23 - And Jesus answered them, Have faith in God. Truly, I say to
  you, whoever says to this mountain, Be taken up and thrown into the sea,
  and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come
  to pass, it will be done for him.

Walk in what you have asked for in prayer:

  Mark 11:24 - Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that
  you have received it, and it will be yours.

It's important to forgive others in order to move forward, because
unforgiveness I think may inhibit moving into what you have asked for in
prayer:

  Mark 11:25 - And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything
  against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you
  your trespasses. (ESV)

We must receive Jesus' words, walk in them and come to know in truth (we must
truly know) that Jesus came from God.

  John 17:8 - For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have
  received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and they
  have believed that you sent me.

Therefore, we should obey Jesus and arrive at the truth. Obedience is a part
of faith. Like Abraham obeying God, or like Israel crossing through the Red
Sea, it's obedience which leads to sure belief. And the obedience doesn't
end.

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed Him, “If
  you continue in My word, then you are truly disciples of Mine; and you will
  know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” (NASB)

19.2. We work as servants of God, and the foundation of our work must be Jesus
Christ

  I Corinthians 3:9-15 - For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's
  field, God's building. According to the grace of God given to me, like a
  skilled master builder I laid a foundation, and someone else is building
  upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it. For no one can lay a
  foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if
  anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood,
  hay, straw— each one's work will become manifest, for the Day will disclose
  it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort
  of work each one has done. If the work that anyone has built on the
  foundation survives, he will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned
  up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as
  through fire.

19.2.1. For Christ

  I Corinthians 4:9-10 - For I think that God has exhibited us apostles as
  last of all, like men sentenced to death, because we have become a
  spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men. We are fools for Christ's
  sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are
  held in honor, but we in disrepute.

19.3. Love

• Love without God's grace is not God's love
• It's sacrificial
• Not what we give, but how we give
• The condition of the heart is what God will judge
• It's cheerful obedience to God, cheerful obedience to Jesus
• It's what happens when faith is working

19.3.1. Love is doing what Jesus has said for us to do. Love is following the
commandments

  II John 1:5-6 - And now I ask you, dear lady—not as though I were writing
  you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning—that we
  love one another. And this is love, that we walk according to his
  commandments; this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the
  beginning, so that you should walk in it. (ESV)

  2 Corinthians 9:6-7 - The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also
  reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.
  Each one must give as he has made up his mind, not reluctantly or under
  compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. (ESV)

19.3.2. Almsgiving is a great practice - God really loves a cheerful giver

  Acts 10:2 - a devout man and one who feared God with all his household, and
  gave many alms to the Jewish people and prayed to God continually. About
  the ninth hour of the day he clearly saw in a vision an angel of God who
  had just come in and said to him, “Cornelius!” And fixing his gaze on him
  and being much alarmed, he said, “What is it, Lord?” And he said to him,
  “Your prayers and alms have ascended as a memorial before God.

  II Corinthians 9:7 - Each one must give as he has made up his mind, not
  reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.

19.3.3. The person who loves their brother abides in light

  1 John 2:10 - Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him
  there is no cause for stumbling. (ESV)

19.4. Justifying faith should result in going from it being impossible to obey
God to possible

All things are possible for God. Without God we can't have eternal life,
because we need a relationship with Jesus.

We need to be able to fulfill the requirement of the law, to love God and
one's neighbour and at the same time submit to the righteousness of God
through faith in Jesus Christ and to do the will of Father God in order to
have eternal life. It's impossible without God's help.

19.4.1. Faith submits to God's will

  Mark 14:36 - And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you.
  Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will.

Learning God's will through submission to God's Word.

  Ephesians 5:24 - Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should
  submit in everything to their husbands.

  James 4:7 - Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he
  will flee from you.

All things are possible for those who have faith.

  Mark 9:22-27 - It has often thrown him both into the fire and into the
  water to destroy him. But if You can do anything, take pity on us and help
  us!” And Jesus said to him, “‘If You can?’ All things are possible to him
  who believes (G4100 pisteuo).” Immediately the boy’s father cried out and
  said, “I do believe; help my unbelief.” When Jesus saw that a crowd was
  rapidly gathering, He rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, “You deaf
  and mute spirit, I command you, come out of him and do not enter him
  again.” After crying out and throwing him into terrible convulsions, it
  came out; and the boy became so much like a corpse that most of them said,
  “He is dead!” But Jesus took him by the hand and raised him; and he got up.

  Matthew 17:20 - He said to them, Because of your little faith. For truly, I
  say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to
  this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will
  be impossible for you.

  Matthew 19:26 - But Jesus looked at them and said, With man this is
  impossible, but with God all things are possible.

  Mark 10:27 - Jesus looked at them and said, With man it is impossible, but
  not with God. For all things are possible with God.

  Luke 1:37 - For nothing will be impossible with God.

  Luke 18:27 - But he said, What is impossible with men is possible with God.

It's impossible to please God without faith, but with faith all things are
possible.

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him.

19.4.2. The Mosaic law doesn't help people to keep the law. It doesn't save -
it only condemns or justifies. Only grace through faith in God who raised Jesus
from the dead saves

The law doesn't save:

  Galatians 3:21-24 - Is the law then contrary to the promises of God?
  Certainly not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then
  righteousness would indeed be by the law. But the Scripture imprisoned
  everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be
  given to those who believe. Now before faith came, we were held captive
  under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So
  then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be
  justified by faith. (ESV)

The law doesn't save:

  Hebrews 7:19 - (for the law made nothing perfect); but on the other hand, a
  better hope is introduced, through which we draw near to God. (ESV)

Paul seems to refer to the Mosaic law as the ministry of death, and Paul
refers to the ministry of the Spirit of Christ as giving life:

  II Corinthians 3:6-9 - who has made us competent to be ministers of a new
  covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but
  the Spirit gives life. Now if the ministry of death, carved in letters on
  stone, came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses'
  face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end, will not the
  ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? For if there was glory in the
  ministry of condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it
  in glory. (ESV)

Jesus Christ was and is sinless:

  I Peter 2:22 - He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth.
  (ESV)

Jesus was sinless, and it is because Jesus was sinless that we have hope of
an eternity in heaven. If Jesus were not sinless, there would be no sacrifice
for sin.

And we are also cleaned up through faith in Jesus, being led by His Spirit,
following His commandments, helping us to meet the requirement of the law,
not by trying to be justified through perfect Mosaic law-keeping but instead
by having faith in Jesus Christ, following Christ's law:

  Acts 13:38-39 - Therefore let it be known to you, brethren, that through
  (G1223 dia) Him forgiveness (G859 aphesis) of sins is proclaimed to you,
  and through (G1722 en) Him everyone who believes (G4100 pisteuo) is freed
  (G1344 dikaioo) from all things, from which you could not be freed through
  the Law of Moses. (NASB)

Due to Jesus, forgiveness is proclaimed:

|  :  1223  dia  dee-ah'
| 
|   a primary preposition denoting the channel of an act; through (in very
|   wide applications, local, causal, or occasional):--after, always,
|   among, at, to avoid, because of (that), briefly, by, for (cause) ...
|   fore, from, in, by occasion of, of, by reason of, for sake, that,
|   thereby, therefore, X though, through(-out), to, wherefore, with
|   (-in). In composition it retains the same general importance.

Forgiveness: Pardon, freedom.

|  :  859  aphesis  af'-es-is
| 
|   from 863; freedom; (figuratively) pardon:--deliverance, forgiveness,
|   liberty, remission.
|   see GREEK for 863

Together with him, everyone who has faith (continues in faith) in him is
freed from all things from which you could not be freed through the Law of
Moses:

|  :  1722  en  en
| 
|   a primary preposition denoting (fixed) position (in place, time or
|   state), and (by implication) instrumentality (medially or
|   constructively), i.e. a relation of rest (intermediate between 1519
|   and 1537); "in," at, (up-)on, by, etc.:--about, after, against, +
|   almost, X altogether, among, X as, at, before, between, (here-)by (+
|   all means), for (... sake of), + give self wholly to, (here-)in(-to,
|   -wardly), X mightily, (because) of, (up-)on, (open-)ly, X outwardly,
|    one, X quickly,
|    X shortly, (speedi-)ly, X that, X there(-in, -on),
|    through(-out), (un-)to(-ward), under, when, where(-with), while,
|    with(-in). Often used in compounds, with substantially the same
|    import; rarely with verbs of motion, and then not to indicate
|    direction, except (elliptically) by a separate (and different)
|    preposition.

Faith is how we receive the propitiation by His blood. God justifies the one
who has (continues having) faith in Jesus. The law of faith is what we keep:

  Romans 3:20-27 - For by works of the law no human being will be justified
  in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. But now the
  righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the
  Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the righteousness of God through
  faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction: for
  all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by
  his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom
  God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith.
  This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he
  had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the
  present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has
  faith in Jesus. Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what
  kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by the law of faith.

Yes, the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who do something
i.e. walk according to the spirit.

  Romans 8:4 - in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be
  fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the
  Spirit.

The mind set on the spirit submits to the law:

  Romans 8:5-7 - For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on
  the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set
  their minds on the things of the Spirit. To set the mind on the flesh is
  death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace. For the mind
  that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's
  law; indeed, it cannot.

See, Jesus actually taught people to practice, but without hypocrisy:

  Matthew 23:2-7 - The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so
  practice and observe whatever they tell you—but not what they do. For they
  preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and
  lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move
  them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For
  they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long, and they love
  the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues and
  greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others. (ESV)

Polycarp 6:3
Let us therefore so serve Him with fear and all reverence, as He himself gave
commandment and the Apostles who preached the Gospel to us and the prophets
who proclaimed beforehand the coming of our Lord; being zealous as touching
that which is good, abstaining from offenses and from the false brethren and
from them that bear the name of the Lord in hypocrisy, who lead foolish men
astray.

The law is not of the flesh. The law is spiritual:

  Romans 7:14 - For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh,
  sold under sin. (ESV)

But the Spirit helps us to put to death the deeds of the flesh.

  Galatians 5:19 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality,
  impurity, sensuality,

  Romans 8:10-13 - But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because
  of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. If the Spirit of him
  who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus
  from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit
  who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to
  live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh you
  will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you
  will live.

If I understand correctly, the Law, which is spiritual, was weakened by our
flesh, but Jesus Christ's flesh was rent on the cross in order that the
righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who don't walk
according to the flesh, but who walk according to the Spirit:

  Romans 8:3-4 - For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could
  not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin,
  he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of
  the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but
  according to the Spirit. (ESV)

Paul says that pursuing the righteousness that is by Mosaic law, is placing
confidence in the flesh:

  Philippians 3:4-7 - though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh
  also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I
  have more: circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the
  tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee; as to
  zeal, a persecutor of the church; as to righteousness, under the law
  blameless. But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of
  Christ. (ESV)

But to put confidence in the Spirit is to not to abandon obedience, but to
seek instead to know Christ Jesus, our Lord, with obedient faith to Jesus:

  Philippians 3:8-11 - Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the
  surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have
  suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I
  may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
  that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the
  righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and the
  power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him
  in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from
  the dead. (ESV)

So we still must/should forsake sin after getting born-again, but the Holy
Spirit helps us to do that. God saves us from sin by giving us immediate
justification through faith to be in relationship with Him, plus the strength
to forsake sin.

  II Peter 2:2-11 - And many will follow their sensuality, and because of
  them the way of truth will be blasphemed. And in their greed they will
  exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle,
  and their destruction is not asleep. For if God did not spare angels when
  they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy
  darkness to be kept until the judgment; if he did not spare the ancient
  world, but preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others,
  when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly; if by turning the
  cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them to extinction,
  making them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly; and if he
  rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the
  wicked (for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was
  tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and
  heard); then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to
  keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment, and
  especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise
  authority. Bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the
  glorious ones, whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not
  pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord. (ESV)

  II Peter 2:19-20 - They promise them freedom, but they themselves are
  slaves of corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is
  enslaved. For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world
  through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again
  entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for them
  than the first.

Therefore, the way of truth involves believing the truth and to not blaspheme
it involves also practicing the truth and obeying Righteousness (trusting and
obeying Jesus) and turning away from sin is certainly a consequence of
turning to trust and obey Jesus.

Talk
youtube.com: The Hidden Parable of Moses that Few Christians Understand

  II Peter 2:2 - And many will follow their sensuality, and because of them
  the way of truth will be blasphemed. (ESV)

19.4.3. With God, following the 10 commandments and to love God and our
neighbour is possible

  Matthew 19:16-26 - And behold, a man came up to him, saying, Teacher, what
  good deed must I do to have eternal life? And he said to him, Why do you
  ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would
  enter life, keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus
  said, You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not
  steal, You shall not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother, and,
  You shall love your neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All
  these I have kept. What do I still lack? Jesus said to him, If you would be
  perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have
  treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. When the young man heard this he
  went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his
  disciples, Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person
  enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to
  go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom
  of God. When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished,
  saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With man
  this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.

The guy was still coveting his possessions. To find life, one needs to let go
of covetousness:

  Luke 12:15 - And he said to them, Take care, and be on your guard against
  all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his
  possessions. (ESV)

youtube.com: God is the Gospel @time: 45 min 31 sec

Quote from John Piper
The prosperity gospel is no gospel because what it does is offer to people
what they want as natural people.

Amen to that.

The reason we want to be righteous is so we get God, not that we become God
but that we abide in God.

God is the Gospel - YouTube @time: 40 min 42 sec

Yes, we must be obedient as He is obedient, but that first act of obedience
and the most important one is that we allow Jesus to wash us. We must
believe, Jesus, trust in Jesus:

  Philippians 2:5-11 - Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in
  Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality
  with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form
  of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human
  form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even
  death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him
  the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee
  should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue
  confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. (ESV)

We must accept this teaching:

  John 6:40-47 - For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks
  on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise
  him up on the last day. So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, I
  am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is not this Jesus, the
  son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have
  come down from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among
  yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him.
  And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the Prophets, And
  they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the
  Father comes to me— not that anyone has seen the Father except he who is
  from God; he has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever
  believes has eternal life. (ESV)

AMEN!!

Amen to that.

God wants to be our treasure, our heart's desire. I want that too:

  Matthew 6:21 - For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
  (ESV)

  Job 22:24-26 - if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the
  stones of the torrent bed, then the Almighty will be your gold and your
  precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and
  lift up your face to God. (ESV)

Jesus emptied Himself so we can become rich - this is true, but it's so we
can also empty ourselves so others can become rich:

  II Corinthians 8:9 - For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that
  though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his
  poverty might become rich. (ESV)

In doing so, it is then characteristic of Jesus' servants to love one another
as He has loved them:

  Matthew 20:26-28 - It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great
  among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must
  be your slave, even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve,
  and to give his life as a ransom for many. (ESV)

We pour out our wealth for others, as He did for us:

  Acts 2:44-45 - And all who believed were together and had all things in
  common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and
  distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need. (ESV)

But especially to the house hold of faith:

  Galatians 6:10 - So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to
  everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. (ESV)

And especially to one's own relatives and even more especially to one's own
household:

  I Timothy 5:8 - But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and
  especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is
  worse than an unbeliever. (ESV)

When Jesus washes us we abide in Him - we are found in Him. If we are to be
"great" in the Kingdom, then we are to also become servants:

  John 13:8 - Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered
  him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. (ESV)

Jesus Christ is our Lord and Teacher - that means we believe and obey Him:

  John 13:13-14 - You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I
  am. If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought
  to wash one another's feet. (ESV)

The true gospel teaches people to obey Jesus:

  Galatians 5:13-14 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not
  use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve
  one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
Justification by faith alone sets us free from law-keeping [as] a way of
getting right with God. This justifying faith is the kind of faith that
produces love. This love humbly, sacrificially serves others. Thus loving the
neighbour as itself, this love fulfills the law. This faith-produced,
neighbour-serving, law-fulfilling love is the "Law of Christ".

I do believe God can set us free from the enemy who steals from us though -
but we overcome by keeping faith and obedience and faithfulness with God,
exhibiting real faith which is not set on material things, but on God's
promises, and on God's heart:

desiringgod.org: How to Win the War for Your Mind | Desiring God

  John 10:10 - The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came
  that they may have life and have it abundantly. (ESV)

I also believe the prosperity gospel is no gospel because it doesn't teach
love. It teaches covetousness:

  Luke 12:15 - And he said to them, Take care, and be on your guard against
  all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his
  possessions. (ESV)

  I Timothy 6:1-5 - Let all who are under a yoke as slaves regard their own
  masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and the teaching
  may not be reviled. Those who have believing masters must not be
  disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers; rather they must serve
  all the better since those who benefit by their good service are believers
  and beloved. Teach and urge these things. If anyone teaches a different
  doctrine and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ
  and the teaching that accords with godliness, he is puffed up with conceit
  and understands nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and
  for quarrels about words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil
  suspicions, and constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and
  deprived of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain. (ESV)

The reason we want to be righteous is so we get God.

youtube.com: God is the Gospel @time: 40 min 42 sec

19.5. Justifying faith should result in going from disobedient to obedient

  Colossians 1:21 - And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind,
  doing evil deeds,

  Hebrews 12:11 - For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than
  pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those
  who have been trained by it. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 10:5-6 - We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised
  against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey
  Christ, being ready to punish every disobedience, when your obedience is
  complete. (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:2 - in which you once walked, following the course of this
  world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now
  at work in the sons of disobedience—

  Ephesians 5:6 - Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of
  these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.

Now faith in God is more than just believing, it's walking in that belief,
and it's even obedience, and out of that obedience comes love.

Jesus will manifest to those who keep His commandments:

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

The followers of Paul the Apostle live by (walk by) faith; those are the
righteous ones. It's a lifestyle:

  Galatians 3:11 - Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by
  the law, for The righteous shall live by faith. (ESV)

Faith in God is believing God and walking in that belief and trusting Jesus
and obeying Jesus and allowing Jesus to work through you as you believe and
obey His commandments.

The ones who remained in the boat and did not step out onto the water did not
have enough faith to walk on water. Fear and doubt weakened their faith.
Maybe Peter took his eyes off Jesus, and instead focused on the water.

  Matthew 14:27-32 - But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Take heart;
  it is I. Do not be afraid. And Peter answered him, Lord, if it is you,
  command me to come to you on the water. He said, Come. So Peter got out of
  the boat and walked on the water and came to Jesus. But when he saw the
  wind, he was afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out, Lord, save me.
  Jesus immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying to him,
  O you of little faith, why did you doubt? And when they got into the boat,
  the wind ceased.

  Mark 5:36 - But overhearing what they said, Jesus said to the ruler of the
  synagogue, Do not fear, only believe. (ESV)

  Hebrews 2:2 - For since the message declared by angels proved to be
  reliable and every transgression or disobedience received a just
  retribution,

  Hebrews 9:14 - how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the
  eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our
  conscience from dead works to serve the living God.

19.6. Obedience is essential to justifying faith

Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness:

  Romans 4:3 - For what does the Scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it
  was counted to him as righteousness. (ESV)

Jesus commanded us to believe (pisteuo) in Him:

  John 14:1 - “Do not let your heart be troubled; believe (G4100 pisteuo) in
  God, believe (G4100 pisteuo) also in Me. (NASB)

Paul says we must trust (pisteuo) in Him:

  Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts (G4100 pisteuo)
  him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, (ESV)

Having believed in Jesus, having begun to trust in Jesus, we have become
obedient to Jesus. Jesus works on us as we trust in Him even before we
understand what He's doing, and we have become obedient because he commanded
us to trust Him:

  John 13:6-7 - He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my
  feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but
  afterward you will understand. (ESV)

Abraham's obedience which he had as part of his faith led him to obey:

  Hebrews 11:8 - By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a
  place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not
  knowing where he was going. (ESV)

  Hebrews 4:6 - Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those
  who formerly received the good news failed to enter because of
  disobedience,

  Hebrews 4:11 - Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one
  may fall by the same sort of disobedience.

Song
youtube.com: From The Inside Out - Hillsong UNITED

From the Inside Out (Lyrics)
Everlasting, your light will shine when all else fades; Never ending, your
glory goes beyond all fame; And the cry of my heart is to bring you praise;
From the inside out; Lord my soul cries out

And willing to do the will of God must become 'doing'.

  I John 2:17 - And the world is passing away along with its desires, but
  whoever does the will of God abides forever.

  John 7:17 - If anyone is willing to do His will, he will know of the
  teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from Myself.

pisteuo = to have faith upon

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in the Son has eternal life;
  whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God
  remains on him. (ESV)

  John 3:14-16 - And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so
  must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have
  eternal life. For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. (ESV)

  John 6:40 - For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on
  the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him
  up on the last day. (ESV)

  John 3:16 - "For God so loved (G25 agapao) the world (G2889 kosmos), that
  He gave His only (G3439 monogenēs) begotten (G3439 monogenēs) Son (G5207
  huios), that whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in Him shall not perish, but
  have eternal (G166 aionios) life (G2222 zoe).

|  :  4100  pisteuo  pist-yoo'-o
| 
|   from 4102; to have faith (in, upon, or with respect to, a person or
|   thing), i.e. credit; by implication, to entrust (especially one's
|   spiritual well-being to Christ):--believe(-r), commit (to trust), put
|   in trust with.
|   see GREEK for 4102

We must trust Him and Obey.

19.7. Jesus' odedience resulted in turning others to obedience

  Romans 5:19 - For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made
  sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.

A process:

• 'Will be made' => Turning people to obedience.

Adam disobeyed, and his descendants become disobedient.

Jesus obeyed, and his disciples become obedient.

19.7.1. Likewise, we are commanded to do the same

  Matthew 28:18-20 - And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven
  and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all
  nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the
  Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And
  behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.

19.8. It is the mercy of God that we are turned from disobedience to obedience

  II Corinthians 10:6 - being ready to punish every disobedience, when your
  obedience is complete.

  Romans 15:17-18 - In Christ Jesus, then, I have reason to be proud of my
  work for God. For I will not venture to speak of anything except what
  Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience—by
  word and deed,

I think that is the correct way to see the following Scripture:

  Romans 11:29-33: For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. Just
  as you were at one time disobedient to God but now have received mercy
  because of their disobedience, so they too have now been disobedient in
  order that by the mercy shown to you they also may now receive mercy. For
  God has consigned all to disobedience (543. apeitheia - willful unbelief,
  obstinancy, disobedience), that he may have mercy on all. Oh, the depth of
  the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his
  judgments and how inscrutable his ways!

The obedient are led by the Spirit of God. But it isn't a Spirit of slavery,
it's a Spirit of sonship, where we get to be conformed to the image of
Christ!:

  Romans 8:12-15 - So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to
  live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh you
  will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you
  will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For
  you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you
  have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba! Father!

Even Jesus kept entrusting Himself to Father God. We should walk in the
Truth, walking the Light, while entrusting ourselves to God who judges
justly:

  I Peter 2:23 - When he was reviled, he did not revile in return; when he
  suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who
  judges justly. (ESV)

That's what we're supposed to do:

  I Peter 4:19 - Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will
  entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. (ESV)

We have assurance in Lordship Salvation because we believe what Jesus said:

  Luke 6:35 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing
  in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most
  High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. (ESV)

Father God makes many sons. For it was fitting that He (Father God), for whom
and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the
founder of their salvation (Jesus Christ) perfect through suffering:

  Hebrews 2:10 - For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things
  exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their
  salvation perfect through suffering. (ESV)

He was raised for our justification; now in order to be justified by faith,
we simply need to put our faith in Him - we need to trusting Jesus Christ.

Trusting in Jesus should result in following Him, believing Jesus' words,
walking as he walked, entrusting ourselves to Father God who judges
righteously.

We have to die to our old self and live for Christ, simply abiding in Him.

  II Corinthians 5:14-15 - For the love of Christ controls us, because we
  have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died;
  and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for
  themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised.

If we walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before
he was circumcised, and are doing the will of God, then we would love Jesus
and Jesus helps us:

  John 8:39-40 - They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to
  them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what Abraham did,
  but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard
  from God. This is not what Abraham did. (ESV)

  Hebrews 2:16-18 - For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps
  the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in
  every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest
  in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For
  because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who
  are being tempted. (ESV)

  Mark 3:35 - Whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and
  mother. (ESV)

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

If we walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before
he was circumcised, but having faith in God by obeying Jesus Christ who was
raised for our justification then we have Jesus Christ's righteousness; we
have the righteeousness of faith in God.

  Romans 4:22-23 - That is why his faith was counted to him as righteousness.
  But the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone,
  (ESV)

And the promise will be ours also, because Jesus is our Lord, and we belong
to Him.

  Romans 4:24-25 - but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in
  him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our
  trespasses and raised for our justification. (ESV)

Even as we are going through hardship for following Jesus, we should rejoice
because we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us:

  Romans 8:36-39 - As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all
  the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these
  things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure
  that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor
  things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all
  creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus
  our Lord.

19.8.1. As obedient children, we are to be conformed to holiness

  I Peter 1:14-16 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy.

  Ephesians 5:5-10 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is
  sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has
  no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you
  with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon
  the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not associate with them; for at one
  time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children
  of light (for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and
  true), and try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord.

19.8.2. Illegitimate children are left without discipline and are not sons

  Hebrews 12:6-8 - For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises
  every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure.
  God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not
  discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have
  participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons.

19.9. The measure of what we hear and take heed of and how we hear and let take
root in us will be measured to us

  Mark 4:24 - And he said to them, Pay attention to what you hear: with the
  measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added
  to you.

  Luke 8:18 - So take care how you listen; for whoever has, to him more shall
  be given; and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has shall be
  taken away from him.”

If you do not take care of how you hear and what you hear, then …

  Isaiah 6:10 - “Render the hearts of this people insensitive, Their ears
  dull, And their eyes dim, Otherwise they might see with their eyes, Hear
  with their ears, Understand with their hearts, And return and be healed.”

I think it's important to take in all the words which Jesus spoke which are
available to us, and to come to a faith which is able to reconcile faith with
works, and law and obedience, and the gospel Jesus taught before and after
the resurrection, and reconcile the teachings of the epistles from Peter,
Paul and John, and Epistle to the Hebrews.

  Matthew 13:15 - For the heart of this people has become dull, With their
  ears they scarcely hear, And they have closed their eyes, Otherwise they
  would see with their eyes, Hear with their ears, And understand with their
  heart and return, And I would heal them.’

The word return specifies 'action'.

  John 12:40 - “He has blinded their eyes and He hardened their heart, so
  that they would not see with their eyes and perceive with their heart, and
  be converted and I heal them.”

  Acts 28:27 - For the heart of this people has become dull, And with their
  ears they scarcely hear, And they have closed their eyes; Otherwise they
  might see with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with
  their heart and return, And I would heal them.”’

20. Spirit of Truth vs Spirit of Error

Don't rely on your dreams - they may come from evil spirits:

  Jude 1:8 - Yet in like manner these people also, relying on their dreams,
  defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the glorious ones. (ESV)

20.1. Don't believe falsehood

If you listen to someone with a deceptive, beguiling spirit, then the same
measure of that would come into you.

  Isaiah 30:1 - Ah, stubborn children, declares the LORD, who carry out a
  plan, but not mine, and who make an alliance, but not of my Spirit, that
  they may add sin to sin; (ESV)

youtube.com: AFreshWord - Important
You know, one thing that I can't stand about these familiar spirits is that
they usually lead you to the doorstep of destruction. They'll have you moving
and doing all these different things just to end up completely destitute
somewhere and outside of the will of God. I absolutely hate it. And it's my
prayer that you would be completely delivered and if you've been led astray
by a deceiving lying spirit I pray that your entire life would be redeemed.

And that would would probably affect the truthfulness of your dreams if you
have a prophetic gift, but there are other reasons a person may get dreams of
falsehood including spiritual attack.

youtube.com: The Crucial Meaning of God's Word - John MacArthur #shorts
#bible #christ

If you're a new believer or a believer who has not been developed in
understanding of the word of God you are susceptible to Satan's lies.

And it's not just misinformation that has some minor consequences.
Misinformation from the kingdom of darkness has disastrous and devastating
consequences.

So to know the the Word is absolutely critical. To know what it means is of
course essential because the revelation of God is in the understanding. Let
me say it this way: The meaning of the Scripture is the Scripture. If you
don't get the meaning right, you didn't get the revelation, you got something
else. And there are a lot of false interpretations floating around.

20.1.1. No lie is of the truth

  1 John 2:21 - I write to you, not because you do not know the truth, but
  because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth. (ESV)

20.1.2. Garden of Eden

• Eve listened to another voice

  Genesis 3:4 - The serpent said to the woman, “You surely will not die!
  (ESV)

  I Timothy 2:14 - And it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman being
  deceived, fell into transgression. (ESV)

20.2. Not all 'spirit' is true

It's false to say that 'all spirit is true' and body and soul are false.

  Jeremiah 14:14 - And the LORD said to me: The prophets are prophesying lies
  in my name. I did not send them, nor did I command them or speak to them.
  They are prophesying to you a lying vision, worthless divination, and the
  deceit of their own minds. (ESV)

  Isaiah 30:1-5 - Ah, stubborn children, declares the LORD, who carry out a
  plan, but not mine, and who make an alliance, but not of my Spirit, that
  they may add sin to sin; who set out to go down to Egypt, without asking
  for my direction, to take refuge in the protection of Pharaoh and to seek
  shelter in the shadow of Egypt! Therefore shall the protection of Pharaoh
  turn to your shame, and the shelter in the shadow of Egypt to your
  humiliation. For though his officials are at Zoan and his envoys reach
  Hanes, everyone comes to shame through a people that cannot profit them,
  that brings neither help nor profit, but shame and disgrace. (ESV)

  Hosea 4:12 - My people inquire of a piece of wood, and their walking staff
  gives them oracles. For a spirit of whoredom has led them astray, and they
  have left their God to play the whore. (ESV)

  Isaiah 30:9 - For they are a rebellious people, lying children, children
  unwilling to hear the instruction of the LORD; (ESV)

  I Chronicles 10:13-14 - So Saul died for his breach of faith. He broke
  faith with the LORD in that he did not keep the command of the LORD, and
  also consulted a medium, seeking guidance. He did not seek guidance from
  the LORD. Therefore the LORD put him to death and turned the kingdom over
  to David the son of Jesse. (ESV)

Rather we must listen to God:

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
  No one comes to the Father except through me. (ESV)

  Psalms 119:160 - The sum of Your word is truth, And every one of Your
  righteous ordinances is everlasting. (ESV)

  John 17:17 - Sanctify them in the truth; Your word is truth. (ESV)

20.3. Spirit of Truth

These do not contradict:

• Jesus is the Truth
• Matthew 5:17 - Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or
the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them.
(ESV)
• John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the
life. No one comes to the Father except through me. (ESV)
• Jesus' words are Truth and Life
• John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no
avail. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.
(ESV)
• God's word is truth. The sum of our Creator’s word is Truth
• The Scripture (Torah) does not contradict
• Psalms 119:160 - The sum of your word is truth, and every one of
your righteous rules endures forever. (ESV)
• John 17:17 - Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth. (ESV)
• Jesus Christ is the Word of God, who has come into the world in the flesh
• Emmanuel
• Isaiah 7:14 - Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign.
Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his
name Immanuel. (ESV)
• The Spirit of Truth is the Truth
• I John 5:6 - This is he who came by water and blood—Jesus Christ;
not by the water only but by the water and the blood. And the Spirit
is the one who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth. (ESV)
• Jesus is God
• Isaiah 9:6 - For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and
the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be
called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince
of Peace. (ESV)
• thegospelcoalition.org: How Can Jesus Be Our Everlasting Father?
• Jeremiah 32:17-18 - Ah, Lord GOD! It is you who has made the heavens
and the earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm!
Nothing is too hard for you. You show steadfast love to thousands,
but you repay the guilt of fathers to their children after them, O
great and mighty God, whose name is the LORD of hosts, (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:20-21 - But that is not the way you learned Christ!— assuming
  that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in
  Jesus, (ESV)

Read
https://www.scriptureway.com/home/jesus-is-the-truth

Quote by R. C. Sproul
"Truth is not defined by our own subjective standards; it is determined by
the Source of truth Himself"

Here is an interesting read with some interesting points. One could use a
number of verses to teach “salvation by X alone” doctrines. For instance, we
could teach:

• Repentance alone from 2 Corinthians 7:10
• Baptism alone from Acts 22:16
• The life of Christ alone from Romans 5:10
• The blood of Christ alone from Revelation 1:5
• The word of God alone from James 1:21
• Obedience alone from Hebrews 5:9, and so on.
• The sum of Your word is truth, And every one of Your righteous ordinances
is everlasting.

  Psalms 119:160 - The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your
  righteous rules endures forever. (ESV)

As the psalmist states, the sum of God’s word is truth. However, when we make
passages fight against each other, we are saying only some of God’s word is
truth.

20.3.1. Jesus is noticeably present with us as we believe and affirm and obey
the Truth

Sermon
youtube.com: How to Seek the Holy Spirit @time: 19 min 20 sec

The work of the Holy Spirit is to cause you to remember Him (Jesus) and with
the eyes of the heart Ephesians 1:17 see Him there.

  Matthew 28:20 - teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And
  behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age. (ESV)

Yup, this has been real for me in seeking to be obedient to the promptings of
the Holy Spirit which has included obedience to Jesus' commandments in the
face of opposition.

20.3.2. God is not a God of confusion but of peace

  I Corinthians 14:31-33 - For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all
  may learn and all be encouraged, and the spirits of prophets are subject to
  prophets. For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. As in all the
  churches of the saints, (ESV)

20.3.3. We should listen to and obey Jesus' words and compare everything with
the scripture

  Psalms 119:105 - Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
  (ESV)

  Psalms 119:142 - Your righteousness is righteous forever, and your law is
  true. (ESV)

  Acts 17:11 - Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica;
  they received the word with all eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily
  to see if these things were so. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 10:5 - We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised
  against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey
  Christ, (ESV)

20.3.4. sola scriptura as the source of truth against false dreams and against
lies

I've definitely had some issues, but I've noticed that repenting from sinful
habits and obeying Jesus helps a lot to deal with that.

On 2 Jan 2023 I had a dream of defending a house with Bible verses written on
the doorposts.

I didn't know this was Biblical until very recently:

  Deuteronomy 6:9 - You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and
  on your gates. (ESV)

But now I know.

sola scriptura (by Scripture alone) AMEN!!

Jesus used the Scriptures to combat lies:

  Luke 4:7-8 - If you, then, will worship me, it will all be yours. And Jesus
  answered him, It is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him
  only shall you serve. (ESV)

  Luke 4:11-13 - and On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike
  your foot against a stone. And Jesus answered him, It is said, You shall
  not put the Lord your God to the test. And when the devil had ended every
  temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time. (ESV)

  John 10:35-36 - If he called them gods to whom the word of God came—and
  Scripture cannot be broken — do you say of him whom the Father consecrated
  and sent into the world, You are blaspheming, because I said, I am the Son
  of God? (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Contrary to Roman Catholics, the Bible Is Our Sufficient
Authority

Jesus' warning against forsaking the word of God, the Holy Scriptures, for
tradition:

  Mark 7:11-13 - But you say, If a man tells his father or his mother,
  Whatever you would have gained from me is Corban (that is, given to God)—
  then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother, thus
  making void the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down.
  And many such things you do. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: John Piper's Sermon with Scripture only

Prophesy should be tested, prophets should be tested, the spirits must
confess Jesus and the message should align with the Scripture:

youtube.com: The Lord Says - Do Not Be Swept Up By The Lie
There is a great deception coming over the earth. A delusion which will
overcome the minds of men. He who is not tethered to the Rock shall be swept
away by it. It is a strong and seductive delusion. Already many have been
taken captive by it. Their ears have become dull. Their eyes have become
blinded to the Truth. Yet they are convinced among themselves that they have
grasped the truth.

20.3.5. Do not associate with people who call themselves believers but are
against sound doctrine

Do not greet or associate with people who do not abide in the teaching of
Christ, and are in opposition to the truth:

  II John 1:1-11 - The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love
  in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth, because of the
  truth that abides in us and will be with us forever: Grace, mercy, and
  peace will be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the
  Father's Son, in truth and love. I rejoiced greatly to find some of your
  children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father. And
  now I ask you, dear lady—not as though I were writing you a new
  commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning—that we love one
  another. And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments; this
  is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you
  should walk in it. For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those
  who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is
  the deceiver and the antichrist. Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose
  what we have worked for, but may win a full reward. Everyone who goes on
  ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God.
  Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone
  comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your
  house or give him any greeting, for whoever greets him takes part in his
  wicked works. (ESV)

We must:

• confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh
• abide in the teaching of Christ
• we must walk according to His commandments
• We must love one another as He has loved us

What counts is faith working through love:

  Titus 3:8-15 - The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these
  things, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote
  themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for
  people. But avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and
  quarrels about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. As for a
  person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have
  nothing more to do with him, knowing that such a person is warped and
  sinful; he is self-condemned. When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, do
  your best to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the
  winter there. Do your best to speed Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their
  way; see that they lack nothing. And let our people learn to devote
  themselves to good works, so as to help cases of urgent need, and not be
  unfruitful. All who are with me send greetings to you. Greet those who love
  us in the faith. Grace be with you all. (ESV)

What counts is faith working through love:

  Galatians 5:1-6 - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore,
  and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look: I, Paul, say to you
  that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I
  testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to
  keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified
  by the law; you have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by
  faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in
  Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything,
  but only faith working through love. (ESV)

  Romans 16:17-18 - I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who
  cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have
  been taught; avoid them. For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but
  their own appetites, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the
  hearts of the naive. (ESV)

We must abide in the teachings of Jesus, believing what Jesus has said,
believing Jesus:

  John 5:37-38 - And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about
  me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you
  do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he
  has sent. (ESV)

Avoid people who stubbornly oppose the teaching of Christ:

  II Timothy 3:2-7 - For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money,
  proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy,
  heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not
  loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of
  pleasure rather than lovers of God (5377. philotheos), having the
  appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people. For
  among them are those who creep into households and capture weak women,
  burdened with sins and led astray by various passions, always learning and
  never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth. (ESV)

We must not be:

• lovers of self
• lovers of money
• arrogant
• abusive
• disobedient to our parents
• ungrateful
• unholy
• heartless
• unappeasable
• slanderous
• without self-control
• brutal
• not loving good
• treacherous
• reckless
• swollen with conceit
• lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God (5377. philotheos)
• have the appearance of godliness but denying its power

I literally have been getting tested with this stuff as I fight against an
antichrist spirit. I'd love to be able to say that I have perfect
self-control, am holy in thought and deed, etc. and perfectly obedient to my
parents. Sometimes, though, it feels as though satan puts me in a choke hold
where I need to be a perfect saint to pass all the tests.

I literally feel as though I was just then tested through 3 different people
the following passages:

• II Timothy 3:2-7
• II John 1:1-11

God please help me to pass these tests.

Avoid people who stubbornly oppose the teaching of Christ:

  I Corinthians 5:11 - But now I am writing to you not to associate with
  anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality
  or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler—not even to eat
  with such a one. (ESV)

This is about being willing to work or unwilling. I'm definitely willing to
work. But not having a job doesn't mean being unwilling to work because a
person can will to work but be unable to work for various reasons. Just stay
busy. In my case I am in a season of focusing on Jesus after being
born-again:

  II Thessalonians 3:1-14 - Finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of
  the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, as happened among you, and that we
  may be delivered from wicked and evil men. For not all have faith. But the
  Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one.
  And we have confidence in the Lord about you, that you are doing and will
  do the things that we command. May the Lord direct your hearts to the love
  of God and to the steadfastness of Christ. Now we command you, brothers, in
  the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from any brother who
  is walking in idleness and not in accord with the tradition that you
  received from us. For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us,
  because we were not idle when we were with you, nor did we eat anyone's
  bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we worked night and
  day, that we might not be a burden to any of you. It was not because we do
  not have that right, but to give you in ourselves an example to imitate.
  For even when we were with you, we would give you this command: If anyone
  is not willing to work, let him not eat. For we hear that some among you
  walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busybodies. Now such persons we
  command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and
  to earn their own living. As for you, brothers, do not grow weary in doing
  good. If anyone does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that
  person, and have nothing to do with him, that he may be ashamed. (ESV)

Being willing to work is important as we are not supposed to be a burden on
others.

  Galatians 6:2-6 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he
  deceives himself. But let each one test his own work, and then his reason
  to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor. For each will
  have to bear his own load. One who is taught the word must share all good
  things with the one who teaches. (ESV)

Accepting support is OK when in need, but we should still seek to bear our
own load:

  II Corinthians 11:7-9 - Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself so that
  you might be exalted, because I preached God's gospel to you free of
  charge? I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to
  serve you. And when I was with you and was in need, I did not burden
  anyone, for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied my need. So I
  refrained and will refrain from burdening you in any way. (ESV)

20.3.6. The criminal conviction has made it more difficult to support myself
and other people in need

  II Corinthians 6:4-8 - but as servants of God we commend ourselves in every
  way: by great endurance, in afflictions, hardships, calamities, beatings,
  imprisonments, riots, labors, sleepless nights, hunger; by purity,
  knowledge, patience, kindness, the Holy Spirit, genuine love; by truthful
  speech, and the power of God; with the weapons of righteousness for the
  right hand and for the left; through honor and dishonor, through slander
  and praise. We are treated as impostors, and yet are true; (ESV)

Nevertheless, I do my best to still help others. While the will is there, the
wallet isn't anymore because the enemy doesn't want me to help people.

I'm willing to work and I would love to have a job and I would love to teach
but I've been attacked a lot by demons, prevented from teaching due to a
conviction, pushed out of churches for following Jesus, had the love of my
life taken away from me, and been treated like absolute garbage, coming from
such poverty that the poverty undermined my college degree, and my subsequent
employment. For some reason it's been far too difficult. Although it is
important to get a job, I have to be fit and prepared for work, and I'm doing
battle against an anti-marriage spirit, and I'm like the person who was
recovering at the inn (from the parable of the good Samaritan as Jesus has
rescued me). Also, I'm in corrections (<2024-07-21 Sun> so I am being
corrected by reading my Bible and studying the Word, so I still feel as
though I am in the clear. I understand work is important, and I'm not
exaggerating any of this. It will happen in the right order. And any spirit
that forces having a job, or especially forces having assets before having a
wife I consider to be a spirit of prostitution / people trafficking. It's an
abomination to me. This antichrist spirit has also been attacking my family
and manifesting within the household. I feel safe calling it an antichrist
spirit because as far as I can tell it's trying to eliminate marriage (i.e.
rewrite the law of God) and make it so with money a person can have whatever
they want, no matter how depraved:

  Daniel 7:25 - He shall speak words against the Most High, and shall wear
  out the saints of the Most High, and shall think to change the times and
  the law; and they shall be given into his hand for a time, times, and half
  a time. (ESV)

It's very unbiblical and is a heinous lie that in pleading guilty that the
person is surely admitting blame for all accusations made against them,
especially when I was not allowed barely any input leading right up to the
court date. It seemed like I was only allowed one of two options "take the
conviction (and from the court's eyes admit all the slander against me is
true) or dishonour Jesus by not obeying Jesus" and I chose to obey Jesus.

God sees the heart and the true reasons, and I was aware God was in the
situation with me. A big reason that I pleaded guilty was that I can't plead
innocence to accusations about how someone felt harassed - who am I to say
they didn't feel harassed? But I still plead guilty because even 1% guilt
regarding the charge is not perfect innocence. Only Jesus in that situation
could have pleaded totally not guilty, and instead of retaliating Jesus let
his accusers rend his body on the cross:

  I Samuel 16:7 - But the LORD said to Samuel, Do not look on his appearance
  or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the LORD
  sees not as man sees: man looks on the outward appearance, but the LORD
  looks on the heart. (ESV)

Firstly, I will say that I pleaded guilty believing I was guilty of the
charge in a strict sense, and I still think I did the right thing pleading
guilty.

• I was guilty of the charge of harassment as far as giving to Caesar that
which belongs to Caesar goes (God as my witness).
• Jesus caused offense too to people who wanted to put Him to death,
and if He were to admit offense, then He would have truthfully
admitted offense.
• I was guilty of other things as far as giving to God that which belongs
to God goes (God as my witness).
• I was taken to court while I was repenting from heresy, repenting
from sin and trying to do good. In other words I was punished while
I had the mindset of doing good and repenting.
• I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the
truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from
a pure heart, (ESV)
• It was a good opportunity and natural next step to make testimony of
Jesus after being born-again, and also Jesus prophetically said this
would happen to His disciples:
• Matthew 10:17-23 - Beware of men, for they will deliver you over to
courts and flog you in their synagogues, and you will be dragged
before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them
and the Gentiles. When they deliver you over, do not be anxious how
you are to speak or what you are to say, for what you are to say
will be given to you in that hour. For it is not you who speak, but
the Spirit of your Father speaking through you. Brother will deliver
brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will
rise against parents and have them put to death, and you will be
hated by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end
will be saved. When they persecute you in one town, flee to the
next, for truly, I say to you, you will not have gone through all
the towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes. (ESV)

I was prepared to serve my sentence when I pleaded guilty, and I had selected
community service, but was given corrections instead - regardless, the
sentence I had accepted in pleading guilty. I was not aware that I would be
publicly unlawfully slandered, the slander from the press not being anything
to do with my sentence.

A quick search of "pleading guilty in New Zealand" will tell you that it is
an admission of committing the offence charged with - well, the reason might
be or it might not be that because it depends on what the person's real
reason for pleading guilty really was, and there are reasons a person pleads
guilty outside of believing they are entirely guilty of the charge along with
all the so-called facts, and outside of what Community law NZ says). Also
God's Word is much sharper than man's law, so it's to be expected that NZ law
cannot model the justice of God's law perfectly, and Christians are supposed
to model Christ's love and bear witness of Jesus, not take vengeance for
themselves, but to pass forward grace and forgiveness.

Community law NZ
Quote "If you plead guilty it means you agree that you did everything the
police say you did, as set out in the police “summary of facts”, and that
you’re ready to be sentenced by a judge for it. If you agree with some of
what’s in the summary of facts but not all of it, make sure you tell your
lawyer – they might be able to get the charges or the summary of facts
changed."

Community law NZ
Quote: "If you plead guilty, this means that you admit committing the offence
you have been charged with."

When I pleaded guilty to the charge of harassment I am still in the right to
plead guilty - I might be almost entirely innocent of the accusations made
against me, but I'm still not committing perjury in pleading guilty because I
had other reasons to plead guilty, and insufficient information to plead not
guilty because pleading not guilty would be pleading perfect innocence and
would be selfish, not selfless, and Jesus has called His disciples to be
selfless.

Other reasons I had to plead guilty:

• I was remaining faithful to Jesus
• I was asked a week before Easter if I would plead guilty or not
guilty after someone had sent me a picture depicting Jesus breaking
Himself off the cross, and I don't plan on dishonouring Jesus right
after being born-again and becoming a disciple of Jesus.
• Matthew 24:12-13 - And because lawlessness will be increased, the
love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will
be saved. (ESV)
• I was trying to fulfill Christ's law, bearing the burdens of the other
people who had taken me to court.
• I was seeking to do no harm to my neighbour.
• I was seeking to be a peacemaker / take the fall for my neighbour.
• I was repenting from erroneous theology after getting born-again.
• I was repenting from any public endorsement of gay marriage.
• I was seeking to emulate Christ's love to the person I wanted to marry
instead of do what is antithetical to Christian marriage, and I felt like
that also meant reneging on the marriage proposal and carrying my cross.
• Doing what is antithetical to Christian marriage would prove me to
be not exercising Christ's love, and so, sadly, I had to give up on
the prospect of marrying the person I wanted to marry in order to
serve Jesus most faithfully and love my neighbour as Jesus loved me.
• I'd only marry someone who has made Jesus their number one treasure
and is abiding in-Christ and takes the initiative to confess Jesus
Christ as their Lord and Saviour before people and is unashamed of
Jesus and is practicing the passing-forward of Christ's love and is
embracing sanctification
• At this stage I'd only marry a born-again Christian while
keeping my foremost faithfulness to Jesus (i.e. someone who is
actively obeying Jesus as their Lord and Saviour, obeying the
gospel of the Lord Jesus)
• Ephesians 4:25 - Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each
one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are
members one of another. (ESV)
• What is not done in faith is sin. I could not plead "not guilty" as I
could not do so confidently thinking it was the right thing to do. To
plead not-guilty felt like vindictive behaviour. Blessed are the merciful
for they will receive mercy.
• I was not without fault.

I must obey God rather than obey Christ-denying lawlessness. God as my
witness:

  Acts 5:29-32 - But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather
  than men. The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging
  him on a tree. God exalted him at his right hand as Leader and Savior, to
  give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And we are witnesses to
  these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who
  obey him. (ESV)

We need to act out the truth, like Jesus:

  I John 1:6 - If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in
  darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. (ESV)

  I John 3:2-3 - Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has
  not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him,
  because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him
  purifies himself as he is pure. (ESV)

Read
desiringgod.org: Is It Ever Right to Lie? | Desiring God

God's Truth is righteous Truth:

  Isaiah 45:19 - I did not speak in secret, in a land of darkness; I did not
  say to the offspring of Jacob, Seek me in vain. I the LORD speak the truth;
  I declare what is right. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 32:3-4 - For I will proclaim the name of the LORD; ascribe
  greatness to our God! The Rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are
  justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and upright is
  he. (ESV)

But to say that pleading guilty is an admission that the full set of facts in
the 'summary of facts' which came out the day I pleaded guilty is true is, I
think a heinous lie, and my guilty plea was not an endorsement of the slander
against me. There's something very antichrist about how the opportunity for
"forgiveness" and the opportunity to choose to "take the penalty without
accepting the truth of the summary of so-called facts" (i.e. taking the fall)
had been squashed out of the court system which was looking to paint one
person as entirely innocent and one person as guilty (without a trial). But
when the judge read my letter which said that I believe the words of Jesus
Christ which He received from Almighty God and that Jesus Christ is the Truth
and that I forgive everyone, and want to be forgiven myself, and I want to
move on from the person I proposed to and put the past behind me, and I pray
she recovers completely, the judge said, "that is your opinion" and spoke a
lot of evil slander at me while he was the only one allowed to speak - well I
pray God has mercy on him when he answers to the Lord for that. I forgive the
judge and everyone involved and ask for forgiveness.

To say that pleading guilty means that the person admits all of the
accusations against them and accepts the validity of the summary of facts is
not true unless it is actually true (i.e. that the person actually accepts
the validity of the summary of facts), and for me it cannot be said that I
had accepted the validity of the summary of facts but I chose to plead guilty
and accept the sentence because that's what peacemakers do. I believe the
summary of facts was laden with falsehood, and I was not given enough
opportunity to have my side of events entered into court - I was practically
silenced by extreme bail conditions that felt like witchcraft (which I told
the first judge I stood before on the 3 May, before my sentencing), as being
unable to even speak to my lawyer properly or defend myself, I was deprived
of using the internet, deprived of phone, computer, etc. and deprived of
leaving my house almost right up to pleading guilty, and so it was an unfair
conviction and sentencing in my opinion, and in the latter part of 2022 under
strict bail conditions I was being obedient to Jesus, trying to bear other
peoples' burdens financially, while getting hit with antichrist visions and
visions of evading judgement through good works, but I was already born-again
with a clean slate spiritually - it was an antichrist spirit which had come
against me. Yet I still believe that I was acting in good conscience in God's
sight throughout the entire process and even with regards to the charge to
plead guilty (I believe it was the right thing to do), but the accusations
against me were so blown out of proportion and there was so much falsehood in
the accusations against me that it was sometimes very alluring to plead for
my innocence, but when things got very tough I managed to resist the urge to
retaliate:

  Isaiah 51:7 - Listen to me, you who know righteousness, the people in whose
  heart is my law; fear not the reproach of man, nor be dismayed at their
  revilings. (ESV)

From my perspective it is correct to say that I wanted to marry out of a good
conscience and out of a place where I would not be enticed into sinning, but
the devil tried to make it look like it was evil. By faith Shane, when he was
grown up and born-again, refused to go back to living an ungodly lifestyle so
he made his first marriage proposal to someone who he had joy in proposing
to, someone he had at the time believed God made for him, meaning it was
easier for him to not sin, and by faith Shane obeyed God and remained
faithful to Jesus in a NZ court room to do no harm to his neighbour, and from
his perspective laid his Isaac on the Altar and there was no intervention
from God. By faith Shane took a conviction which has made it even more
difficult in the eyes of some to get married:

  Hebrews 11:24-28 - By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be
  called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to be mistreated with
  the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin. He
  considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of
  Egypt, for he was looking to the reward. By faith he left Egypt, not being
  afraid of the anger of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is
  invisible. By faith he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that
  the Destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them. (ESV)

By faith Shane now awaits the mercy from God for those who fear Him and hope
in Him:

  Psalms 33:18-19 - Behold, the eye of the LORD is on those who fear him, on
  those who hope in his steadfast love, that he may deliver their soul from
  death and keep them alive in famine. (ESV)

  Psalms 25:3 - Indeed, none who wait for you shall be put to shame; they
  shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous. (ESV)

  Jude 1:21 - keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of
  our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. (ESV)

  Isaiah 25:8 - He will swallow up death forever; and the Lord GOD will wipe
  away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away
  from all the earth, for the LORD has spoken. (ESV)

Now I have a criminal conviction and have borne reproach internationally and
locally effectively for being born-again of the Spirit, following Jesus and
making a marriage proposal, and for standing up for what is right against the
spirit of the world that rejects God:

  John 14:17 - even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive,
  because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with
  you and will be in you. (ESV)

I had been born-again so I had received forgiveness from God, and needed to
pass it on. Also, after being born-again we should continue to pass forward
grace, mercy and forgiveness:

  Matthew 5:7 - Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. (ESV)

  James 2:13 - For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy.
  Mercy triumphs over judgment. (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:32 - Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one
  another, as God in Christ forgave you. (ESV)

There was an almost complete absence of truth from my perspective in the
accusations made against me, and in the unlawful slander made against me
after I was convicted was definitely not warranted - it was just pure
slander, and very unhelpful, and we know that slander does not come from
Jesus. An eye for an eye makes everybody blind. We are commanded to overcome
evil with good and love your enemies. But they were not even my enemies. I
only ever held love for them:

  Romans 12:21 - Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 5:43-48 - You have heard that it was said, You shall love your
  neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray
  for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is
  in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends
  rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you,
  what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if
  you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not
  even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect, as your
  heavenly Father is perfect. (ESV)

The summary of facts had been updated for the day the judge read it out
against me, and I did not know what it was updated with. If I recall
correctly, I had entered new information and the other side had entered new
information. Even if my lawyer had access to them, there's no way I could
truthfully say that "pleading guilty is an admission of guilt to the full set
of accusations and an admission that the summary of facts is true" - it was a
new document. I do not want to be a liar or a spreader of slander, so I
cannot say the lies were true, and I also want people to stop slandering each
other, but I still chose to plead guilty. I guess I had to become a bit of a
scapegoat. It was my mindset to remain faithful to Jesus and also do no harm
to the person I proposed to because I love them. And so Jesus was there
watching the event as my Advocate:

  John 8:55 - But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I
  do not know him, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and I keep
  his word. (ESV)

Pleading guilty to a charge can be for the sole reason that a person cannot
claim perfect innocence:

  Romans 3:23 - for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, (ESV)

  I John 1:8 - If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth
  is not in us. (ESV)

When obeying man's law means disobeying God we should instead choose to obey
God, and disobey man's law:

  Acts 5:29 - But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather
  than men. (ESV)

If obeying man's law means doing evil, then I refuse to obey man's law. I
found myself being pressured by people around me including the courts into
taking the girl who I had proposed to to trial, and I refused to take her to
trial or to seek justice for myself, I refused to play the game which the
devil wanted me to play, and I took the sentence instead because that does
not harm anyone but myself. I do not consider myself to have committed
perjury by pleading guilty because, it is grey and even if I am a little bit
responsible for what happened, I consider that grounds to plead guilty in
court - it's the right thing to do:

  Matthew 12:12 - Of how much more value is a man than a sheep! So it is
  lawful to do good on the Sabbath. (ESV)

My faith and God's law came up against the imperfect NZ law:

  Romans 13:10 - Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the
  fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

  Proverbs 3:29-30 - Do not plan evil against your neighbor, who dwells
  trustingly beside you. Do not contend with a man for no reason, when he has
  done you no harm. (ESV)

3709. orgé
"Orgē comes from the verb oragō meaning, 'to teem, to swell'; and thus
implies that it is not a sudden outburst, but rather (referring to God's)
fixed, controlled, passionate feeling against sin . . . a settled indignation
(so Hendriksen)" (D. E. Hiebert, at 1 Thes 1:10).

Jesus' anger here was a godly grief:

  Mark 3:4-5 - And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or
  to do harm, to save life or to kill? But they were silent. And he looked
  around at them with anger (3709. orgé), grieved at their hardness of heart,
  and said to the man, Stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his
  hand was restored. (ESV)

Also, the reason to take the sentence can also be to simply not drag things
out!

  Matthew 5:25 - Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going
  with him to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge, and the
  judge to the guard, and you be put in prison. (ESV)

Senselessly hated and persecuted for correct thinking because I've been taken
from the world and belong to Jesus now:

  John 15:25 - But the word that is written in their Law must be fulfilled:
  They hated me without a cause. (ESV)

  John 15:18-20 - If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it
  hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own;
  but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world,
  therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: A
  servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will
  also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. (ESV)

Our adversary, the accuser, is literally the devil and the devil working
through people, not the people themselves:

  I Peter 5:8 - Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls
  around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. (ESV)

  Ephesians 6:12 - For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against
  the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this
  present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly
  places. (ESV)

Also, the summary of facts was conveniently changed when I made new
appearances in court, and the judge spun huge amounts of slander against me
in court, the slander then became international news. He'll have to answer to
God for that. The whole thing was antichrist, so I simply made testimony of
Jesus in court. There are other reasons a person pleads guilty, and one is
that the person is abiding by Christ's law to do no harm against their
neighbour, and another reason is to not put Christ to the test by claiming
perfect innocence. I was born-again of Jesus' spirit in 2 April 2022, and
subsequently charged with a conviction after making a marriage proposal, so
the conviction now makes it now more difficult to love my neighbour because
it's more difficult for me to provide financial assistance for my neighbour
if it is more difficult to have a job thanks to having a conviction. Satan
would happily like it if servants of Jesus are deprived of financial income
and given a bad public image because then they're less able to help their
neighbour or support themself and their family:

  Jehovah God please grant us deliverance from this spirit of antichrist in
  Jesus Christ's name I ask.

  I Corinthians 13:1-8 - If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but
  have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. And if I have
  prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I
  have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.
  If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but
  have not love, I gain nothing. Love is patient and kind; love does not envy
  or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it
  is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but
  rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes
  all things, endures all things. Love never ends. As for prophecies, they
  will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will
  pass away. (ESV)

Love doesn't take into account wrongs suffered. I believe the NASB is more
accurate on this than the NIV. Even if the NIV is right, I can't identify any
specific thing the other side of court did wrong to me wrong prior to going
to court. However, during and after my interactions with police and court
it's different story. There was a relentlessly slandering, antichrist
graceless spirit coming out from the other side. If I could identify the
specific wrongs or the root causes I wouldn't impute them to them anyway
because I forgave them. But there are some very suspect things which happened
around around the time I got born-again. The entire thing surrounding getting
pulled into court felt out of control, and influenced externally by
antichrist spirits. I feel as if witchcraft was performed against me, with
the demons harassing me and manifesting through people around me. I feel
wronged and my complaint sits in God's courts. Until I am delivered, my
complaint remains in God's courts. In summary, it feels like God made me
born-again into LGBT GPT Neuralink demons-everywhere world. I proposed to the
love of my life and God allowed all the demons attack me unceasingly for 2
years, not only destroying that but allowing the demons to cause corruption
and defilement in my body which is the temple of the Holy Spirit and I expect
God to rectify this somehow because an injustice has happened:

  I Corinthians 13:5 - does not act unbecomingly; it does not seek its own,
  is not provoked, does not take into account (logizetai) a wrong suffered,
  (NASB)

I believe the NASB in saying that "love does not take into account
(logizetai) a wrong suffered" is more accurate than the NIV which says "keeps
no record of wrongs".

  I Corinthians 13:5 - It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not
  easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. (NIV)

However, the NASB in this instance I think is wrong about love not being
provoked. Love is sometimes provoked, since God is love and love comes from
God, but love isn't easily provoked to anger. God's anger here was for their
overall benefit:

  Deuteronomy 9:7 - Remember and do not forget how you provoked the LORD your
  God to wrath in the wilderness. From the day you came out of the land of
  Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against the
  LORD. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 13:5 - Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own,
  is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; (KJV)

We should be imitators of God's love:

  Psalms 103:8 - The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and
  abounding in steadfast love. (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:1-2 - Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And
  walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant
  offering and sacrifice to God. (ESV)

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

Love your enemies as well as your friends. Be like Your Heavenly Father. Be
perfect. Love (25. agapaó) your enemies means "treasuring your enemies" and
looks like not repaying evil for evil. It sometimes looks like refusing to do
evil and instead doing good to those who do you harm, taking the initiative
in overcoming evil with good:

  Matthew 5:43-48 - You have heard that it was said, You shall love your
  neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray
  for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is
  in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends
  rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you,
  what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if
  you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not
  even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect, as your
  heavenly Father is perfect. (ESV)

  Proverbs 25:21-22 - If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if
  he is thirsty, give him water to drink, for you will heap burning coals on
  his head, and the LORD will reward you. (ESV)

3709. orgé
"Orgē comes from the verb oragō meaning, 'to teem, to swell'; and thus
implies that it is not a sudden outburst, but rather (referring to God's)
fixed, controlled, passionate feeling against sin . . . a settled indignation
(so Hendriksen)" (D. E. Hiebert, at 1 Thes 1:10).

Jesus' anger here was a godly grief:

  Mark 3:4-5 - And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or
  to do harm, to save life or to kill? But they were silent. And he looked
  around at them with anger (3709. orgé), grieved at their hardness of heart,
  and said to the man, Stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his
  hand was restored. (ESV)

The Pharisees here trying to outlaw Jesus' disciples from acting lawfully and
trying to outlaw deeds of mercy:

  Matthew 12:1-14 - At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the
  Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck heads of grain
  and to eat. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, Look, your
  disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. He said to
  them, Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, and those who
  were with him: how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the
  Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat nor for those who were
  with him, but only for the priests? Or have you not read in the Law how on
  the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are
  guiltless? I tell you, something greater than the temple is here. And if
  you had known what this means, I desire mercy, and not sacrifice, you would
  not have condemned the guiltless. For the Son of Man is lord of the
  Sabbath. He went on from there and entered their synagogue. And a man was
  there with a withered hand. And they asked him, Is it lawful to heal on the
  Sabbath?—so that they might accuse him. He said to them, Which one of you
  who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold
  of it and lift it out? Of how much more value is a man than a sheep! So it
  is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. Then he said to the man, Stretch out
  your hand. And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like
  the other. But the Pharisees went out and conspired against him, how to
  destroy him. (ESV)

  Mark 2:23-28 - One Sabbath he was going through the grainfields, and as
  they made their way, his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. And the
  Pharisees were saying to him, Look, why are they doing what is not lawful
  on the Sabbath? And he said to them, Have you never read what David did,
  when he was in need and was hungry, he and those who were with him: how he
  entered the house of God, in the time of Abiathar the high priest, and ate
  the bread of the Presence, which it is not lawful for any but the priests
  to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him? And he said to them,
  The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is
  lord even of the Sabbath. (ESV)

What we're supposed to do is not bear a grudge against our neighbour / the
sons of our own people:

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)􀀠􅿑

I forgive my neighbour but I don't forgive demons, satan or antichrist:

  I Corinthians 16:22 - If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be
  accursed. Our Lord, come! (ESV)

Whatever happened, I maintain there were external influences which resulted
in going to court, and I give the benefit of the doubt that the other side of
court were not directly responsible. I had certainly never considered them my
adversaries.

God will give ultimate justice for his servants:

  Luke 18:7-8 - And will not God give justice to his elect, who cry to him
  day and night? , Will he delay long over them? I tell you, he will give
  justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he
  find faith on earth? (ESV)

  Proverbs 17:15 - He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the
  righteous are both alike an abomination to the LORD. (ESV)

So repent and forgive your neighbour in Christ and speak truth to one
another:

  Mark 1:15 - and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at
  hand; repent and believe in the gospel. (ESV)

  II Timothy 4:2 - preach the word; be ready in season and out of season;
  reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with complete patience and teaching. (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:25 - Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you
  speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. (ESV)

We must obey God first and be faithful to God first rather than men.

  Acts 5:29 - But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather
  than men. (ESV)

  Galatians 6:1-10 - Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you
  who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch
  on yourself, lest you too be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and so
  fulfill the law of Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is
  nothing, he deceives himself. But let each one test his own work, and then
  his reason to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor. For
  each will have to bear his own load. One who is taught the word must share
  all good things with the one who teaches. Do not be deceived: God is not
  mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows
  to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows
  to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life. And let us not grow
  weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap, if we do not give up.
  So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially
  to those who are of the household of faith. (ESV)

What matters is a "new creation", faith working through love and keeping the
commandments of God. Amen.

On 2 Jan 2023 I had a dream of defending a house with Bible verses written on
the doorposts.

In my case I am in a season of focusing on Jesus after being born-again and
obediently focusing on the Scriptures:

  Luke 10:38-42 - Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village. And
  a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister
  called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But
  Martha was distracted with much serving. And she went up to him and said,
  Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her
  then to help me. But the Lord answered her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious
  and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen
  the good portion, which will not be taken away from her. (ESV)

  <2024-07-21 Sun> On the topic of Mary and Martha,

  I have been attacked by "new-creation-denying" spirits which forget I was
  born-again to quickly remind me that I'm not employed - I get this
  harassment from people from time to time.

As the Apostle Paul asks, "Let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body
the marks of Jesus." I had a stigmata too I believe. But this me begging for
people to for the sake of the cross of Christ just let me have some grace, as
I have almost traumatic graceless experiences exclusively for most of my
life, so please for the sake of the cross and for love of Jesus cut me some
slack as I have also cut others slack in obedience to Jesus as He made me
born-again. It's my turn to get born-again; and I would appreciate not being
crucified immediately. The reason I have experienced hostility is for
following Jesus, repenting, etc. and being obedient to Jesus. Thanks.

  Galatians 6:14-17 - But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of
  our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I
  to the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. And as for all who walk by this rule,
  peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God. From now on let
  no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus. (ESV)

Jesus still refers to new disciples as "little ones". Disciples have been
obediently following Jesus:

  Luke 14:26-33 - If anyone comes to me and does not hate (3404. miseó, 3404
  miséō – properly, to detest (on a comparative basis); hence, denounce; to
  love someone or something less than someone (something) else, i.e. to
  renounce one choice in favor of another.) his own father and mother and
  wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he
  cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after
  me cannot be my disciple. For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does
  not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete
  it? Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all
  who see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not
  able to finish. Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war,
  will not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand
  to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand? And if not, while
  the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms
  of peace. So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he
  has cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

Look, here's a blessing for loving Jesus and not being an enemy of the cross:

  Matthew 10:40-42 - Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives
  me receives him who sent me. The one who receives a prophet because he is a
  prophet will receive a prophet's reward, and the one who receives a
  righteous person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous
  person's reward. And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of
  cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he will by no
  means lose his reward. (ESV)

Disciples of Jesus carry their cross and face tribulation:

  Acts 14:22 - strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to
  continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must
  enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

Jesus, on His cross said, "I thirst.":

  John 19:28 - After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to
  fulfill the Scripture), I thirst. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:12 - Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for
  so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. (ESV)

  Galatians 6:2-6 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he
  deceives himself. But let each one test his own work, and then his reason
  to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor. For each will
  have to bear his own load. One who is taught the word must share all good
  things with the one who teaches. (ESV)

youtube.com: Hell and Heaven Are at Stake with Money: Galatians 6:6-10, Part
1 @time: 5 min 5 sec

  It's a spirit of "getting a job" taking precedence over "focusing on Jesus
  and obeying Jesus spirit" right after getting born-again, when Jesus wants
  me to focus on Him. I get this stuff attacking me in my sleep too, i.e.
  mocking me too by suggesting working for Neuralink, for example.

  I am very much all for getting a job and bearing my own load, however I'm
  definitely not in the season to get a job.

  As Paul said, "From now on let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my
  body the marks of Jesus."

  So have some respect, please people.

  Me working right now would be like telling the person in the story of the
  good Samaritan who was beaten on the side of the road, as he is still in
  recovery to get a job, which is pure insanity.

  I had to receive a criminal conviction in obedience to Jesus, putting the
  needs of someone first who I love, thus forfeiting my ability to get
  suitable work easily, and I'm in a completely new season of my life where I
  am focusing on Jesus.

  The conviction and press has made it more difficult to bear my neighbour's
  burdens because now, being more difficult to earn money, makes it more
  difficult to give to those in need, and meet the needs of my family. For
  the powers that be to force me into the situation to give me a criminal
  conviction was very anti-christ, and what I mean by anti-christ is like
  "punishing Christ" or disciples of Christ for being Christlike, and
  furthermore preventing them from continuing to spread love and mercy.

  So in Jesus Christ's name I rebuke the antichrist spirit which specifically
  has:

    • prevented me from marrying, before and after getting born-again
    • depriving me of suitable work, before and after getting born-again
    • punishing me for acting in love

  I work very hard, and after being born-again I have encountered a lot of
  resistance by a spirit which keeps accusing me of needing to have a job, or
  I'm not a Christian, while being in corrections.

  It's a very anti-Mary, pro-Martha spirit in a situation which is the same
  as the one Mary and Martha were in. In that situation, Mary was in the
  right to listen to Jesus. That is my situation, so by focusing on Jesus, I
  am doing the correct thing, but this antichrist spirit has been opposing
  that.

  Deuteronomy 24:5 - When a man is newly married, he shall not go out with
  the army or be liable for any other public duty. He shall be free at home
  one year to be happy with his wife whom he has taken. (ESV)

  Luke 5:33-35 - And they said to him, The disciples of John fast often and
  offer prayers, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and
  drink. And Jesus said to them, Can you make wedding guests fast while the
  bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken
  away from them, and then they will fast in those days. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 16:22 - If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be
  accursed. Our Lord, come! (ESV)

  I would love to be working, but I was getting harassed by the work spirit
  even quickly after being born-again, and the correct thing to do then is to
  be focused on Jesus, even giving away all possessions and following Jesus,
  so to say, "Get a job and focus on making money" instead of focus on and
  follow Jesus is totally antichrist.

  Also, right now I'm in corrections on a sickness benefit as I have been
  getting harassed by demons nearly every night, and tested throughout the
  day, as I try to do good works, and even harassed by demons through other
  people very frequently.

  Last year I had a vision last year of defending my house with Bible verses,
  so it's very clear to me that I'm in a situation where I must be focused on
  being corrected theologically and behaviorally and a job will happen when
  I'm ready for it, or when God wants me to get a job, since the Holy Spirit
  has taken over ownership of my life and has started running my life.

  So I just rebuke that antichrist spirit which has been harassing me
  regarding that in Jesus Christ's name, and I'll get a job when I am
  delivered and fit for work.

  It's literally satan attacking me, and I'm just sick and tired of it. I
  guess the reason I'm being attacked is because God made me born-again, has
  me learning the Bible in corrections, focusing on Him and God has been
  raising me up for His purposes.

  The truth of the matter is I am not lazy. Leading up to being born-again,
  throughout 2021 I was extremely productive doing what I thought at the time
  was important work for the good of society whilst being completely content,
  having met the person I wanted to marry, I was in peace and joy.

  There was a time for that research and my work served its purpose in its
  time.

  Something the enemy has robbed from me is the ability to work contentedly,
  by undermining my joy.

|  Dear Heavenly Father, Jehovah God,
|  please, God, in Jesus Christ's name please help me.
|  Please, God, actually prevent people from heaping heavy burdens on me which I can't carry.
|  I'm inundated, as this antichrist spirit continues to attack me, steal from me, take my joy, make things harder, and tries to take my eyes away from You, God.
|  Please help me and those around me to fulfill Christ's law, which is to bear one another's burdens and not to lay up burdens on others.
|  Please help people to learn from Jesus as He carried our burdens to the end, so that we can be strong and ought to carry one others' burdens, and instead of giving each other sour wine when we thirst, to give one another water out of mercy.
|  In Jesus Christ's name, I ask,
|  AMEN!!

  John 19:28 - After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to
  fulfill the Scripture), I thirst. (ESV)

  Psalms 69:21 - They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me
  sour wine to drink. (ESV)

  Galatians 1:8-9 - But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to
  you a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed.
  As we have said before, so now I say again: If anyone is preaching to you a
  gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 16:22 - If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be
  accursed. Our Lord, come! (ESV)

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

Greet those who love us in the faith:

  Titus 3:14-15 - And let our people learn to devote themselves to good
  works, so as to help cases of urgent need, and not be unfruitful. All who
  are with me send greetings to you. Greet those who love us in the faith.
  Grace be with you all. (ESV)

  I received deliverance last night on 10 Aug 2024.

  On 3 April 2022, one day after being born-again of the Spirit, there was
  this message. Amen and Amen to what my pastor has said here:

  youtube.com: Dunedin City Baptist Church - 3/4/2022 @time: 59 min 59 sec

  I had thought that what had happened regarding my first ever marriage
  proposal was God's grace to me but because I took a stand for Jesus and to
  repent from error, the enemy tried to quench the Holy Spirit.

  I feel like the grace which I received the enemy tried to rob from me, and
  tried to make marriage look evil, when marriage proposal is good.

  Daniel 7:25 - He shall speak words against the Most High, and shall wear
  out the saints of the Most High, and shall think to change the times and
  the law; and they shall be given into his hand for a time, times, and half
  a time. (ESV)

  Anyway I have written this - it's my testimony along with Bible study:

  https://semiosis.github.io/

  Romans 1:17 - For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for
  faith, as it is written, The righteous shall live by faith. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 24:5 - When a man is newly married, he shall not go out with
  the army or be liable for any other public duty. He shall be free at home
  one year to be happy with his wife whom he has taken. (ESV).

  I don't want to say something good was bad, etc. Truth matters, and I still
  hold to having forgiven the other side of court as I have prayed last
  night, however, I'll never be prepared to say what is good is evil when it
  comes to God's law. Marriage is good and the marriage proposal was good.
  And the saving gospel word of Truth is known in the heart and it is a
  personal truth that is aligned with God's Truth. What has come against me
  is a spirit of slander which had entered the church, which the Holy Spirit
  inspired me to write about, and the Holy Spirit also inspired me to write
  about God's law on my heart - and that spirit of slander came against me
  when I made testimony of Jesus in court in both repenting of theological
  error as Isaiah 7 and Paul speaks about - throwing out the evil and holding
  fast to the good as Bruce Elder spoke about too. The marriage proposal was
  good and it's not getting thrown out.

  https://web.archive.org/web/20220703044748/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/the-tapestry-of-truth/

  I Corinthians 7:2 - But because of the temptation to sexual immorality,
  each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:6 - So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God
  has joined together, let not man separate. (ESV)

  My baptism in the Holy Spirit recorded:

  https://web.archive.org/web/20220702053809/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/astral-projection-pt-3/

  Born-again:

    • https://web.archive.org/web/20220402091720/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/astral-projection/
    • Exodus 12:1-2 - The LORD said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt,
      This month shall be for you the beginning of months. It shall be the
      first month of the year for you. (ESV)

  Meeting with the Holy Spirit:

    • https://web.archive.org/web/20220503030344/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/astral-projection-pt-2/
    • I John 5:20 - And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us
      understanding, so that we may know him who is true; and we are in him
      who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal
      life. (ESV)

20.3.7. False adversaries and the real adversary

I've been getting dreams and visions of my old friends portraying several of
them to be my adversaries, as if I ever had any problem with them, which I
didn't. I got another one even today <2024-10-20 Sun> of someone I always
considered to be a friend, but before I was born-again a spirit of murder
working through her Muslim friend got her to yell at me saying it would
string me up and hang me on the balcony - definitely not a spirit that comes
from God.

I've noticed that before I was born-again, the devil was causing this type of
thing to happen where I never held grudges against certain people, but other
people began saying things like, "I have to take X person's side." But to me
there was never a side. After I've been born-again, I've seen similar stuff
in dreams and visions. But what is really going on, I believe is that the
devil, Satan, 'the' adversary, 'our' adversary has been doing this.

  I Peter 5:8 - Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls
  around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. (ESV)

We overcome the enemy. Jesus Christ is from the beginning:

  I John 2:14 - I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the
  beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word
  of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one. (ESV)

The JWs have to really believe this if they want to overcome the enemy. Jesus
is the Word of God. Jesus is God. Jesus is the Son of God. Father God is also
God:

  John 1:1-5 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made
  through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him
  was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the
  darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. (ESV)

Holy Spirit is God. Not merely an active force:

  Genesis 1:1-2 - In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
  The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the
  deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 12:11 - And they have conquered him by the blood of the
  Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives
  even unto death. (ESV)

20.3.8. Jesus is giving us perspective.

We should have a healthy fear of God:

  Matthew 10:28 - And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the
  soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. (ESV)

And we should also recognise that God values us:

  Matthew 10:29-31 - Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of
  them will fall to the ground apart from your Father. But even the hairs of
  your head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than
  many sparrows. (ESV)

Jesus' words are like a sword:

  John 12:48 - The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
  judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. (ESV)

We may be tested even through our own household. We must confess Jesus and
keep Him as our number 1 agape love (treasure). We are tested through God's
Word:

  Matthew 10:32-37 - So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will
  acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven, but whoever denies me before
  men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven. Do not think that
  I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace,
  but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father, and a
  daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her
  mother-in-law. And a person's enemies will be those of his own household.
  Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and
  whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. (ESV)

We must keep Jesus' Words and sayings and commandments:

  John 14:21-23 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who
  loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love
  him and manifest myself to him. Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, Lord, how
  is it that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world? Jesus
  answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will
  love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. (ESV)

There's only peace "in Christ". Jesus has not come to bring peace on Earth,
but a sword:

  Matthew 10:32-37 - So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will
  acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven, but whoever denies me before
  men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven. Do not think that
  I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace,
  but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father, and a
  daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her
  mother-in-law. And a person's enemies will be those of his own household.
  Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and
  whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. (ESV)

It's serious business because following Jesus means we have to choose Him
over following the way of the world:

  Matthew 10:38 - And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not
  worthy of me. (ESV)

The stakes do get really high and we are tested on where our allegiance lies:

  Matthew 10:39-40 - Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses
  his life for my sake will find it. Whoever receives you receives me, and
  whoever receives me receives him who sent me. (ESV)

Jesus does respect people who practice righteousness. Holding faith in Jesus
and practicing love and holiness should go hand-in-hand:

  Matthew 10:41-42 - The one who receives a prophet because he is a prophet
  will receive a prophet's reward, and the one who receives a righteous
  person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous person's
  reward. And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of cold water
  because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he will by no means lose his
  reward. (ESV)

20.3.9. Do God's will - follow Jesus in truth, and be obedient to God to combat
falsehood

  John 7:17-19 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether
  the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. The
  one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory, but the one who
  seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no
  falsehood. Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law.
  Why do you seek to kill me? (ESV)

20.3.10. Pay attention to promptings from the Holy Spirit

youtube.com: C.S. Lewis - God is guiding our lives to the best path @time: 17
min 23 sec
These signs were divine confirmations that God was with Gideon in his
mission. Likewise, pay attention to the visions, dreams and the impulses of
the Holy Spirit in your life.

20.4. Spirit of Error

• Contradicts Jesus
• Contradicts Scripture
• Contradicts God's Word

  James 4:4 - You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the
  world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the
  world makes himself an enemy of God. (ESV)

Watch
youtube.com: 10 Lies From the Pulpit {@forhisnamessake}

  II Timothy 4:3-4 - For the time is coming when people will not endure sound
  teaching, but having itching ears they will accumulate for themselves
  teachers to suit their own passions, and will turn away from listening to
  the truth and wander off into myths. (ESV)

10 lies refuted by Scripture:

• Lie 1: "There is no hell"
• Refutation: Matthew 25:41 - Then he will say to those on his left,
Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the
devil and his angels. (ESV)
• Lie 2: "God makes mistakes"
• Refutation: Psalms 18:30 - This God—his way is perfect; the word of
the LORD proves true; he is a shield for all those who take refuge
in him. (ESV)
• Refutation: Deuteronomy 32:4 - The Rock, his work is perfect, for
all his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without
iniquity, just and upright is he. (ESV)
• Refutation: Numbers 23:19 - God is not man, that he should lie, or a
son of man, that he should change his mind. Has he said, and will he
not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not fulfill it? (ESV)
• Lie 3: "Everyone is good"
• Refutation: Romans 3:23 - for all have sinned and fall short of the
glory of God, (ESV)
• Refutation: Matthew 19:17 - And he said to him, Why do you ask me
about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would
enter life, keep the commandments. (ESV)
• Refutation: Romans 5:8 - but God shows his love for us in that while
we were still sinners, Christ died for us. (ESV)
• Lie 4: "Bad things don't happen to Christians"
• Refutation: I Peter 4:12 - Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery
trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something
strange were happening to you. (ESV)
• Refutation: John 16:33 - I have said these things to you, that in me
you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take
heart; I have overcome the world. (ESV)
• Lie 5: "Keep sinning. After all Jesus died once for all our sins, past,
present and future"
• Refutation: Hebrews 10:26-27 - For if we go on sinning deliberately
after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains
a sacrifice for sins, but a fearful expectation of judgment, and a
fury of fire that will consume the adversaries. (ESV)
• Refutation: I John 3:7-10 - Little children, let no one deceive you.
Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous.
Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil
has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God
appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God
makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he
cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. By this it
is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of
the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God,
nor is the one who does not love his brother. (ESV)
• Lie 6: "Jesus is not God"
• Refutation: Matthew 1:23 - Behold, the virgin shall conceive and
bear a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel (which means, God
with us). (ESV)
• Refutation: John 10:30 - I and the Father are one. (ESV)
• Refutation: John 8:58 - Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to
you, before Abraham was, I am. (ESV)
• Refutation: Exodus 3:14 - God said to Moses, I AM WHO I AM. And he
said, Say this to the people of Israel, I AM has sent me to you.
(ESV)
• Lie 7: "You have to be baptised in order to be saved"
• Refutation: Acts 16:30-31 - Then he brought them out and said, Sirs,
what must I do to be saved? And they said, Believe in the Lord
Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household. (ESV)
• Lie 8: "We are in control of our own destiny"
• Refutation: Job 14:5 - Since his days are determined, and the number
of his months is with you, and you have appointed his limits that he
cannot pass, (ESV)
• Refutation: Jeremiah 10:23 - I know, O LORD, that the way of man is
not in himself, that it is not in man who walks to direct his steps.
(ESV)
• Refutation: Proverbs 16:9 - A man’s heart plans his course, but the
LORD determines his steps. (engbsb2020eb)
• Lie 9: "People have a chance to repent once they are in hades"
• Refutation: Luke 16:26-31 - And besides all this, between us and you
a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who would pass
from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to
us. And he said, Then I beg you, father, to send him to my father's
house— for I have five brothers—so that he may warn them, lest they
also come into this place of torment. But Abraham said, They have
Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them. And he said, No, father
Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will
repent. He said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the Prophets,
neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead.
(ESV)
• Lie 10: "The church is [merely] about your [emotional] needs being met
and [can] put teaching aside teaching. Come to the church to cry out to
the Lord all your things that you're going through, that's all it's
about"
• Refutation: Romans 6:17-18 - But thanks be to God, that you who were
once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the
standard of teaching to which you were committed, and, having been
set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. (ESV)
• Refutation: I Peter 2:2-3 - Like newborn infants, long for the pure
spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up to salvation— if indeed
you have tasted that the Lord is good. (ESV)
• Yes, the milk is essential.
• Refutation: Hebrews 5:12-14 - For though by this time you ought to
be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic
principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food, for
everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of
righteousness, since he is a child. But solid food is for the
mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by
constant practice to distinguish good from evil. (ESV)

Please go to a church that is Biblically sound.

20.4.1. Don't believe lies nor even listen to false dreams from false prophets
and diviners

  Zechariah 10:2 - For the household gods utter nonsense, and the diviners
  see lies; they tell false dreams and give empty consolation. Therefore the
  people wander like sheep; they are afflicted for lack of a shepherd. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 23:25-28 - I have heard what the prophets have said who prophesy
  lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed! How long shall
  there be lies in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies, and who
  prophesy the deceit of their own heart, who think to make my people forget
  my name by their dreams that they tell one another, even as their fathers
  forgot my name for Baal? Let the prophet who has a dream tell the dream,
  but let him who has my word speak my word faithfully. What has straw in
  common with wheat? declares the LORD. (ESV)

Woe to the shepherds who strengthen the hands of evildoers so that no one
turns from his evil. We should be encouraging turning away from sin and
encouraging abiding by Christ's teachings:

  Jeremiah 23:14 - But in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen a horrible
  thing: they commit adultery and walk in lies; they strengthen the hands of
  evildoers, so that no one turns from his evil; all of them have become like
  Sodom to me, and its inhabitants like Gomorrah. (ESV)

They continually say to those who despise the word of the LORD, "It shall be
well with you." They preach a watered down gospel:

  Jeremiah 23:17 - They say continually to those who despise the word of the
  LORD, It shall be well with you; and to everyone who stubbornly follows his
  own heart, they say, No disaster shall come upon you. (ESV)

  Zechariah 10:2 - For the household gods utter nonsense, and the diviners
  see lies; they tell false dreams and give empty consolation. Therefore the
  people wander like sheep; they are afflicted for lack of a shepherd. (ESV)

They preach against repentance from sin:

  Jeremiah 23:1-40 - Woe to the shepherds who destroy and scatter the sheep
  of my pasture! declares the LORD. Therefore thus says the LORD, the God of
  Israel, concerning the shepherds who care for my people: You have scattered
  my flock and have driven them away, and you have not attended to them.
  Behold, I will attend to you for your evil deeds, declares the LORD. Then I
  will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries where I have
  driven them, and I will bring them back to their fold, and they shall be
  fruitful and multiply. I will set shepherds over them who will care for
  them, and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be
  missing, declares the LORD. Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD,
  when I will raise up for David a righteous Branch, and he shall reign as
  king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the
  land. In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And
  this is the name by which he will be called: The LORD is our righteousness.
  Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when they shall
  no longer say, As the LORD lives who brought up the people of Israel out of
  the land of Egypt, but As the LORD lives who brought up and led the
  offspring of the house of Israel out of the north country and out of all
  the countries where he had driven them. Then they shall dwell in their own
  land. Concerning the prophets: My heart is broken within me; all my bones
  shake; I am like a drunken man, like a man overcome by wine, because of the
  LORD and because of his holy words. For the land is full of adulterers;
  because of the curse the land mourns, and the pastures of the wilderness
  are dried up. Their course is evil, and their might is not right. Both
  prophet and priest are ungodly; even in my house I have found their evil,
  declares the LORD. Therefore their way shall be to them like slippery paths
  in the darkness, into which they shall be driven and fall, for I will bring
  disaster upon them in the year of their punishment, declares the LORD. In
  the prophets of Samaria I saw an unsavory thing: they prophesied by Baal
  and led my people Israel astray. But in the prophets of Jerusalem I have
  seen a horrible thing: they commit adultery and walk in lies; they
  strengthen the hands of evildoers, so that no one turns from his evil; all
  of them have become like Sodom to me, and its inhabitants like Gomorrah.
  Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts concerning the prophets: Behold, I
  will feed them with bitter food and give them poisoned water to drink, for
  from the prophets of Jerusalem ungodliness has gone out into all the land.
  Thus says the LORD of hosts: Do not listen to the words of the prophets who
  prophesy to you, filling you with vain hopes. They speak visions of their
  own minds, not from the mouth of the LORD. They say continually to those
  who despise the word of the LORD, It shall be well with you; and to
  everyone who stubbornly follows his own heart, they say, No disaster shall
  come upon you. For who among them has stood in the council of the LORD to
  see and to hear his word, or who has paid attention to his word and
  listened? Behold, the storm of the LORD! Wrath has gone forth, a whirling
  tempest; it will burst upon the head of the wicked. The anger of the LORD
  will not turn back until he has executed and accomplished the intents of
  his heart. In the latter days you will understand it clearly. I did not
  send the prophets, yet they ran; I did not speak to them, yet they
  prophesied. But if they had stood in my council, then they would have
  proclaimed my words to my people, and they would have turned them from
  their evil way, and from the evil of their deeds. Am I a God at hand,
  declares the LORD, and not a God afar off? Can a man hide himself in secret
  places so that I cannot see him? declares the LORD. Do I not fill heaven
  and earth? declares the LORD. I have heard what the prophets have said who
  prophesy lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed! How long
  shall there be lies in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies, and who
  prophesy the deceit of their own heart, who think to make my people forget
  my name by their dreams that they tell one another, even as their fathers
  forgot my name for Baal? Let the prophet who has a dream tell the dream,
  but let him who has my word speak my word faithfully. What has straw in
  common with wheat? declares the LORD. Is not my word like fire, declares
  the LORD, and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces? Therefore,
  behold, I am against the prophets, declares the LORD, who steal my words
  from one another. Behold, I am against the prophets, declares the LORD, who
  use their tongues and declare, declares the LORD. Behold, I am against
  those who prophesy lying dreams, declares the LORD, and who tell them and
  lead my people astray by their lies and their recklessness, when I did not
  send them or charge them. So they do not profit this people at all,
  declares the LORD. When one of this people, or a prophet or a priest asks
  you, What is the burden of the LORD? you shall say to them, You are the
  burden, and I will cast you off, declares the LORD. And as for the prophet,
  priest, or one of the people who says, The burden of the LORD, I will
  punish that man and his household. Thus shall you say, every one to his
  neighbor and every one to his brother, What has the LORD answered? or What
  has the LORD spoken? But the burden of the LORD you shall mention no more,
  for the burden is every man's own word, and you pervert the words of the
  living God, the LORD of hosts, our God. Thus you shall say to the prophet,
  What has the LORD answered you? or What has the LORD spoken? But if you
  say, The burden of the LORD, thus says the LORD, Because you have said
  these words, The burden of the LORD, when I sent to you, saying, You shall
  not say, The burden of the LORD, therefore, behold, I will surely lift you
  up and cast you away from my presence, you and the city that I gave to you
  and your fathers. And I will bring upon you everlasting reproach and
  perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 27:9 - So do not listen to your prophets, your diviners, your
  dreamers, your fortune-tellers, or your sorcerers, who are saying to you,
  You shall not serve the king of Babylon. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 29:8 - For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Do not
  let your prophets and your diviners who are among you deceive you, and do
  not listen to the dreams that they dream, (ESV)

20.4.2. Heretical apocryphal 'gospels'

There's too much in the so-called gospels of Thomas and Philip which seem to
be antithetical to the sound words and teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ, so
I renounce any public endorsement of them, as they seem both to be books
which may have been written to mislead Christians.

There is also much in them which is contrary to much of what the Apostle Paul
has written.

Also, I can't agree currently with the Thomas 77 logion and one main reason
is it seems to me that there is still a lot of evil in the world and
anti-christ sentiment.

From my perspective it still seems like there is a lot of anti-Jesus
sentiment out there, so I personally do not yet see everything in subjection
to him; i.e it seems to me there is still a lot of rebellion against Christ.
God's the judge, not me:

  Hebrews 2:7-9 - You made him for a little while lower than the angels; you
  have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection
  under his feet. Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left
  nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in
  subjection to him. But we see him who for a little while was made lower
  than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the
  suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for
  everyone. (ESV)

From my perspective, I am very reluctant to believe we have arrived at the
point where we can currently say that God is 'all in all people on earth'.

  I Corinthians 15:28 - When all things are subjected to him, then the Son
  himself will also be subjected to him who put all things in subjection
  under him, that God may be all in all. (ESV)

All things are under Jesus' feet. God fills all who are in Christ Jesus:

  Ephesians 1:15-23 - For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in
  the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give
  thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord
  Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of
  revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts
  enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you,
  what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is
  the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to
  the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him
  from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far
  above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name
  that is named, not only in this age but also in the one to come. And he put
  all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the
  church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all (G3956 panta)
  in all (G3956 pasin). (ESV)

My main reasons is there is still a lot of sin, idolatry, and lawlessness in
the world and a lot of anti-Jesus sentiment. But I still believe that all
things will be subjected to Him:

  I John 3:5 - You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there
  is no sin. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:9-11 - Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on
  him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every
  knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every
  tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
  (ESV)

In the fullness of time, all things in heaven and earth will be united in
Him. But in the fullness of time, the wheat will be separated from the chaff,
the sheep from the goats:

  Ephesians 1:7-12 - In him we have redemption through his blood, the
  forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which
  he lavished upon us, in all wisdom and insight making known to us the
  mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ
  as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in
  heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having
  been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things
  according to the counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope
  in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

  Isaiah 9:6 - For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the
  government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called
  Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. (ESV)

  Matthew 3:12 - His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his
  threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn, but the chaff he will
  burn with unquenchable fire. (ESV)

It's all been created by Father God, through Jesus and for Jesus:

  Colossians 1:15-20 - He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of
  all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth,
  visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or
  authorities—all things were created through him and for him. And he is
  before all things, and in him all things hold together. And he is the head
  of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead,
  that in everything he might be preeminent. For in him all the fullness of
  God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all
  things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his
  cross. (ESV)

In Christ, there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised,
barbarian, Scythian, slave, free. Outside of Christ though, is a different
story:

  Colossians 3:11 - Here there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and
  uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free; but Christ is all, and in
  all. (ESV)

20.5. Renovating vs Innovating

  Isaiah 43:18-19 - Remember not the former things, nor consider the things
  of old. Behold, I am doing a new thing; now it springs forth, do you not
  perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert.
  (ESV)

star.net.nz: It's a new day for you

I think God wants us to be born-again and move on from the old life, not
asking us to renovate our old life.

  I Corinthians 5:7 - Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump,
  as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been
  sacrificed. (ESV)

  Matthew 16:25 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever
  loses his life for my sake will find it. (ESV)

Renovating is seeking to establish ones own righteousness while not
submitting to God's righteousness.

Following God's commandments is great - a person can renovate for a while but
when presented with the Gospel of Jesus they must submit to God's
righteousness and have faith in Jesus.

  Romans 10:3-4 - For, being ignorant of the righteousness that comes from
  God, and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's
  righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to
  everyone who believes (G4100 pisteuo has faith in Jesus).

Seek God's kingdom and His righteousness first of all:

  Matthew 6:33 - But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and
  all these things will be added to you. (ESV)

Renovating (bad):

• Disobedient to the gospel
• Pursues the fruit of righteousness but trying to establish a
righteousness of their own without submitting to the righteousness
of God.
• Working for justification outside of faith / obedience
• Tries to have the 'holiness' without Jesus.
• Has not obeyed the gospel.
• Never died with Jesus.
• From God's perspective even when they forgive others, it's out of
self-righteousness.
• Forgiving is still good but they still need to submit to the
righteousness of God, by believing and obeying the gospel of Jesus.

  Romans 4:4 - Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift
  but as his due.

The devil does not submit to Jesus. So anyone who doesn't submit to the
righteousness of God, instead sides with the devil.

  II Corinthians 11:14-15 - And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself
  as an angel of light. So it is no surprise if his servants, also, disguise
  themselves as servants of righteousness. Their end will correspond to their
  deeds.

Innovating (good):

• The fruit of the Spirit is fruit (it comes after receiving the Holy
Spirit).
• Obey the gospel for justification.
• Christ is the head.
• Died and rose with Jesus.
• II Timothy 2:11-13 - The saying is trustworthy, for: If we have
died with him, we will also live with him; if we endure, we
will also reign with him; if we deny him, he also will deny us;
if we are faithless, he remains faithful— for he cannot deny
himself.
• Ephesians 2:6 - and raised us up with him and seated us with
him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus,
• Colossians 2:12 - having been buried with him in baptism, in
which you were also raised with him through faith in the
powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.
• Raised with Christ through faith in the powerful working
of God.
• Colossians 3:3 - For you have died, and your life is hidden
with Christ in God.
• Now live to serve Christ.
• II Corinthians 5:15 - and he died for all, that those who live
might no longer live for themselves but for him who for their
sake died and was raised.
• Colossians 3:1 - If then you have been raised with Christ, seek
the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right
hand of God.
• Approaches Christ-likeness following Jesus.
• Having accepted their own need of forgiveness, and having been
forgiven then forgives others who don't even see their need of
forgiveness.
• freely forgives:
• Matthew 18:21-22 - Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord,
how often will my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As
many as seven times? Jesus said to him, I do not say to you
seven times, but seventy times seven. (ESV)
• forgives even those who do not see their need of forgiveness:
• Luke 23:33-35 - And when they came to the place that is called
The Skull, there they crucified him, and the criminals, one on
his right and one on his left. And Jesus said, Father, forgive
them, for they know not what they do. And they cast lots to
divide his garments. And the people stood by, watching, but the
rulers scoffed at him, saying, He saved others; let him save
himself, if he is the Christ of God, his Chosen One! (ESV)

  Isaiah 43:18-19 - Remember not the former things, nor consider the things
  of old. Behold, I am doing a new thing; now it springs forth, do you not
  perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert.
  (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:32 - Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one
  another, as God in Christ forgave you. (ESV)

We must forgive others the same way that God in Christ forgave us.

  Colossians 2:14 - by canceling the record of debt that stood against us
  with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross.

  Luke 11:4 - and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who
  is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation.

It's necessary to submit to the righteousness of God:

• You have accepted that you needed forgiveness from God.
• You have accepted that it's through the shedding of the blood of Jesus
Christ that God has forgiven you, forgiving a debt which was impossible
for you to pay.
• Forgive others freely, knowing you've been forgiven of your sin. Give
freely. Forgive the debt of others towards you. That looks like being a
scapegoat and letting oneself be fleeced. Imagine you've just been
born-again but noone else knows. You know you must forgive others. You
know God can see your heart. Now all of a sudden people make these claims
that you owe them X, Y and Z. You know you've been forgiven of a debt you
were not able to pay. Now instead of contesting others on whether or not
you owe them, you give freely. Seventy-times-seven.

Self-righteous forgiveness:

• Conditional forgiveness (not freely)
• Self-righteously forgive others as if you're perfectly innocent and of
course they sinned against innocence by sinning against you
• Without accepting that you needed the forgiveness which Jesus has paid
through His blood, you then forgive others
• This tries to establish one's own righteousness without submitting
to the righteousness of God
• Believing that you're already good with God and never needed Jesus
• not prepared to forgive freely
• but not having yet submitted to the fact that you need forgiveness
from God.
• Forgiving others is good to do, but without having truly accepted
that you needed forgiveness yourself, you'd still be forgiving
others out of debt to God.
• I think it's impossible to have Christ's heart without having first
accepted being forgiven by Jesus
• Do not accept that one needs or ever needed forgiveness from God.
• That actually means that person's forgiveness is at least a bit
self-righteous (at least from God's perspective)
• They do not give out of credit, but while indebted to God, they
still give God what is due by forgiving others their offenses
towards them
• nevertheless, a person can never achieve perfect right
standing with God without submitting to the righteousness
of God through faith in Christ and accepting the atonement
which Jesus has purchased through His blood

21. laws

• Law of God
• Great commandments
• 1) To love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind
and strength, and 2) love your neighbour as yourself (the Royal
Law)
• We should still endeavour to fulfill these by following
Jesus:
• Believe in Him, believe Him
• Accept the atonement made by His blood, accept
forgiveness from God
• Love one another the same way He loved us
• Jesus' Spirit helps us to fulfill the requirement of the
law as we walk in His Spirit:
• Romans 8:3-4 - For God has done what the law,
weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his
own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin,
he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the
righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled
in us, who walk not according to the flesh but
according to the Spirit. (ESV)
• Golden Rule
• Living by the Golden Rule (or better, the Royal Law) still
comes after having been forgiven by Jesus:
• Matthew 7:12 - So whatever you wish that others would do
to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the
Prophets. (ESV)
• 10 Commandments
• We should endeavour to remain faithful to God with these
from the heart:
• I John 5:21 - Little children, keep yourselves from idols.
(ESV)
• Matthew 5:28 - But I say to you that everyone who looks at
a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery
with her in his heart. (ESV)
• the 613 Mosaic laws
• Romans 5:20 - Now the law came in to increase the
trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the
more, (ESV)
• Galatians 5:18 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are
not under the law. (ESV)
• the law of Christ
• a law of faith
• I John 1:6-7 - If we say we have fellowship with him while
we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth.
But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we
have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus
his Son cleanses us from all sin. (ESV)
• Acts 13:38-39 - Let it be known to you therefore,
brothers, that through this man forgiveness of sins is
proclaimed to you, and by him everyone who believes is
freed from everything from which you could not be freed by
the law of Moses. (ESV)
• John 15:12 - This is my commandment, that you love one
another as I have loved you. (ESV)
• youtube.com: What Is the Law of Christ? Galatians 6:1-5,
Part 2
• We seek to love as Christ loved us. God loved us first.
Love comes from God. We pass-forward love and forgiveness
as we have been loved and forgiven first by God. As I
understand it, to be led by the Spirit is when we are
applying Jesus' commandments (Jesus is your Lord) obeying
Jesus out of love and gratitude:
• love one another as Christ has loved us
• bearing our neighbours' burdens
• obedient to Christ
• belief in Christ's atoning sacrifice
• we must forgive one another as Christ has forgiven
you or face discipline
• Required to satisfy the "Christ's love" criteria I believe
are:
• Our first agape love has to be Jesus
• We love because God loved us first. We ought to love
others because we have been loved by God
• We forgive out of a loving response to God and to
others, knowing we have already been forgiven of our
debt
• It must satisfy Christ's law
• Acceptance comes at the beginning; Jesus gives us the
benefit of the doubt
• Be a servant; consider others more significant than
yourself
• Seek to do not harm to your neighbour
• Bear one another's burdens without partiality
• We should endeavour to love not just on occasion, but
at all times, continually, as Jesus did, and give our
all

OK, so being led by the Spirit, under the law of Christ, we still actually
comply with the Law of God, and the law of Moses cannot condemn us.

  Psalms 119:160 - The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your
  righteous rules endures forever. (ESV)

So we must have Christ in us, and being led by the Spirit.

So we are under the law of Christ, which is a law of faith in Christ, and led
by the Spirit to have the requirement of the Law fulfilled in us.

I'm with this guy:

• youtube.com: DEBATE: Should a Christian Observe the Torah Today? @time:
21 min 24 sec

The lawbreakers will be thrown into the fiery furnace:

  Matthew 13:37-43 - He answered, The one who sows the good seed is the Son
  of Man. The field is the world, and the good seed is the children of the
  kingdom. The weeds are the sons of the evil one, and the enemy who sowed
  them is the devil. The harvest is the close of the age, and the reapers are
  angels. Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be
  at the close of the age. The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will
  gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all law-breakers, and throw
  them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and
  gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the
  kingdom of their Father. He who has ears, let him hear.

  Romans 3:26-27 - It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so
  that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus.
  Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By
  a law of works? No, but by the law of faith.

And faith intrinsically includes obedience to Christ.

21.1. The law of Christ

• be led by the Spirit, applying Jesus' commandments (Jesus is your Lord)
• love one another as Christ has loved you
• bearing your neighbour's burdens
• obedient to Christ
• belief in Christ's atoning sacrifice
• you must forgive one another as Christ has forgiven you

We have freedom from needing perfect law-keeping as a means of justification
(i.e. for getting right with God):

  Galatians 5:13-14 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not
  use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve
  one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
Justification by faith alone sets us free from law-keeping [as] a way of
getting right with God. This justifying faith is the kind of faith that
produces love. This love humbly, sacrificially serves others. Thus loving the
neighbour as itself, this love fulfills the law. This faith-produced,
neighbour-serving, law-fulfilling love is the "Law of Christ".

Summary
Faith-produced, law-fulfilling love as a result and fruit of justification
replaces law-keeping as a cause and means of justification. This new fruit of
faith-produced, law-fulfilling love is the law of Christ.

  Galatians 5:18 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  law.

Faith that from a good conscience with God produces Christ's love:

  I Corinthians 16:13-14 - Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like
  men, be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart
  and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

Doing the will of God is what it means to be led by the Spirit of God:

  Psalms 143:10 - Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your good
  Spirit lead me on level ground! (ESV)

We must have obedient faith in Jesus, as God keeps His covenant with those
who put their faith in Him:

  Nehemiah 1:5 - And I said, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God
  who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his
  commandments,

We are under the law of Christ:

  I Corinthians 9:21 - To those outside the law I became as one outside the
  law (not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ) that I
  might win those outside the law.

Faith which produces love:

  Galatians 5:6 - For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision
  counts for anything, but only faith working through love. (ESV)

Read
biblebrodown.com: Faith Produces Love

Faith which fulfills the law:

  Galatians 5:14-16 - For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall
  love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another,
  watch out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the
  Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. (ESV)

We must bear one another's burdens:

  Galatians 6:2 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ.

  Romans 13:9-10 - The commandments, You shall not commit adultery, You shall
  not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet, and any other
  commandment, are summed up in this word: You shall love your neighbor as
  yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the
  fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

Otherwise, the Son of Man will send his angels, and gather out of his kingdom
all causes of sin and all law-breakers, and throw them into the fiery
furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth:

  Matthew 13:41-42 - The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will
  gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all law-breakers, and throw
  them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and
  gnashing of teeth.

We must forgive our family in Christ:

  Luke 17:3-4 - Pay attention to yourselves! If your brother sins, rebuke
  him, and if he repents, forgive him, and if he sins against you seven times
  in the day, and turns to you seven times, saying, I repent, you must
  forgive him.

  Colossians 3:13 - bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint
  against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you
  also must forgive. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Majesty{Here I am} - Delirious

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of faith:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

Thanks to Jesus' endurance, His spirit empowers us to live as He lived, and
to be conformed to His image. Jesus wants us to practice His love, His faith,
His commandments:

  Hebrews 12:1-3 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. (ESV)

This is Christ's law:

  John 15:12 - This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have
  loved you. (ESV)

We must have faith in Jesus to be justified by faith. God justifies the
person who trusts in Jesus and since we trust Jesus we should be doers of
Christ's law (which is not outside the law of God, so we are doers of the
law), and God justifies the person with the blood of Jesus. If we're trusting
in Jesus then we're trusting in God who justifies the ungodly. We're not
trusting in God to justify our ungodliness, but to justify us as we keep our
faith in Jesus:

  Romans 2:13-16 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous
  before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. For when
  Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they
  are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show
  that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience
  also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse
  them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of
  men by Christ Jesus. (ESV)

The faith that justifies works through love. Real saving faith that justifies
and shows its reality; It has in it the power to produce love.

This love humbly, sacrificially, serves others.

The demons believe and tremble because they don't have the kind of faith that
produces love:

  James 2:19 - You believe that God is one; you do well. Even the demons
  believe—and shudder! (ESV)

We are supposed to be harmless, innocent like children, but wise and mature,
in both thinking and deed:

  I Corinthians 14:20 - Brothers, stop thinking like children. In regard to
  evil be infants, but in your thinking be mature. (engbsb2020eb)

  Matthew 10:16 - Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves:
  be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves. (KJV)

God's strength does not guarantee that we will not suffer as a result of
following Jesus. But God gives us the power at the time we need it to endure
the suffering:

  Hebrews 12:1-3 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. (ESV)

Our love must be genuine. Obedience to Christ must be impartial and merciful,
as God was to us:

  James 2:8-13 - If you really fulfill the royal law according to the
  Scripture, You shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well.
  But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the
  law as transgressors. For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one
  point has become accountable for all of it. For he who said, Do not commit
  adultery, also said, Do not murder. If you do not commit adultery but do
  murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as
  those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is
  without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.
  (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: What Is the Law of Christ? Galatians 6:1-5, Part 2

Amen. We seek to love as Christ loved us. God loved us first. Love comes from
God. We pass-forward love and forgiveness as we have been loved and forgiven
first by God. As I understand it, to be led by the Spirit is when we are
applying Jesus' commandments (Jesus is your Lord) obeying Jesus out of love
and gratitude:

• love one another as Christ has loved us
• bearing our neighbours' burdens
• obedient to Christ
• belief in Christ's atoning sacrifice
• we must forgive one another as Christ has forgiven you or face discipline

Mercy comes from God:

  Luke 6:36 - Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. (ESV)

Also the merciful will receive mercy:

  Matthew 5:7 - Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. (ESV)

We need to imitate God:

  Ephesians 5:1-2 - Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And
  walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant
  offering and sacrifice to God. (ESV)

Believers must become imitators of the Lord:

  I Thessalonians 1:6-7 - And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for
  you received the word in much affliction, with the joy of the Holy Spirit,
  so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in
  Achaia. (ESV)

The in-dwelling word of God works in us who believe/trust as we imitate
Jesus:

  I Thessalonians 2:13 - And we also thank God constantly for this, that when
  you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not
  as the word of men but as what it really is, the word of God, which is at
  work in you believers. (ESV)

Believers turn from idols to serve the living and true God, waiting on His
Son to deliver us from the wrath to come. While we are waiting to be
delivered from the wrath to come, we serve God, serving Christ, serving the
brethren:

  I Thessalonians 1:9-10 - For they themselves report concerning us the kind
  of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to
  serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he
  raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. (ESV)

The law-fulfilling love we produce as a result of justifying faith means we
are not under the Mosaic law as our actions are law-fulfilling. If we have
faith in Christ working through love then our actions are law-fulfilling. In
other words, as we follow Jesus we are being led by His Spirit and we are not
under the law. As we put our trust in Jesus for our justification, exercising
obedience to Jesus, our obedient action is law-fulfilling, and since Jesus is
our Lord and Master, we have Him as Advocate and High Priest to God and we
can live in peace with God.

21.2. Doing the law and doing faith in Jesus are compatible. And with faith in
Jesus we still seek to do the law but our justification comes by our faith in
Jesus not by law-keeping

  I Corinthians 7:19 - For neither circumcision counts for anything nor
  uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. (ESV)

Even as born-again Christians, keeping the 10 Commandments is very important.
Just because we may be justified by faith in Jesus Christ doesn't mean that
followers of Jesus obey unrighteousness. Followers of Jesus still obey
righteousness:

  Romans 1:29-2:13 - They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness,
  evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit,
  maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent,
  haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish,
  faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's decree that those
  who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give
  approval to those who practice them. Therefore you have no excuse, O man,
  every one of you who judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn
  yourself, because you, the judge, practice the very same things. We know
  that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who do such things. Do you
  suppose, O man—you who judge those who do such things and yet do them
  yourself—that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you presume on the
  riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's
  kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and
  impenitent heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath
  when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one
  according to his works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for
  glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those
  who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness,
  there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for
  every human being who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek, but
  glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and
  also the Greek. For God shows no partiality. For all who have sinned
  without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned
  under the law will be judged by the law. For it is not the hearers of the
  law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be
  justified. (ESV)

The righteousness in the actual doing of the law above is still upheld but
there is now the righteousness that is by faith in Jesus Christ. In other
words, keeping the commandments of God and following Jesus are not mutually
exclusive. And the law still describes what good behaviour looks like and
what bad behaviour looks like. But through the redemption that is in Christ
Jesus, as we follow and place our faith in Jesus, obeying Jesus to repent
from sin and to do good and to pass forward love and forgiveness, etc., we
can be justified by our faith in Jesus. As we go on living, we keep our
obedient believing faith in Jesus, and no longer want to rebel against God's
law. Perfect compliance to the law is no longer the basis of our
justification but we seek to not break the law:

  Romans 3:21-31 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Then what becomes of our
  boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but
  by the law of faith. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from
  works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of
  Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one. He will justify the
  circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then
  overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold
  the law. (ESV)

21.3. The law of the Spirit of life vs law of sin and death

Paul seems to refer to the Mosaic law as the ministry of death, and Paul
refers to the ministry of the Spirit of Christ as giving life:

  II Corinthians 3:6-9 - who has made us competent to be ministers of a new
  covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but
  the Spirit gives life. Now if the ministry of death, carved in letters on
  stone, came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses'
  face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end, will not the
  ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? For if there was glory in the
  ministry of condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it
  in glory. (ESV)

The Law (Torah) came in to increase the tresspass:

  Romans 5:19-21 - For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made
  sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Now
  the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace
  abounded all the more, so that, as sin reigned in death, grace also might
  reign through righteousness leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ
  our Lord. (ESV)

OK, so being baptised into Christ Jesus' death,

  Romans 6:1-3 - What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace
  may abound? By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do
  you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were
  baptized into his death? (ESV)

with a death like His,

  Romans 6:4-5 - We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in
  order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the
  Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united
  with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a
  resurrection like his. (ESV)

our old self crucified,

  Romans 6:6-9 - We know that our old self was crucified with him in order
  that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no
  longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin.
  Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with
  him. We know that Christ being raised from the dead will never die again;
  death no longer has dominion over him. (ESV)

we live to serve God now, but that isn't achieved by putting ourselves under
the Torah, but it does mean obeying God through serving Christ:

  Romans 6:10-11 - For the death he died he died to sin, once for all, but
  the life he lives he lives to God. So you also must consider yourselves
  dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

We still must cease from sinning, and we must serve God, and follow Jesus'
commandments, but we are under grace while we do this:

  Romans 6:12-13 - Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies, to make
  you obey their passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments
  for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been
  brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for
  righteousness. (ESV)

We are under grace now. We're not slaves to the Mosaic Law:

  Romans 6:14-15 - For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not
  under law but under grace? By no means! (ESV)

But we are obedient slaves now to righteousness, slaves of God, as slaves of
Christ:

  Romans 6:16-18 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone
  as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But
  thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient
  from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,
  and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.
  (ESV)

We no longer present our members as slaves to impurity (sin):

  Romans 6:19 - I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. (ESV)

There was no warring between the spirit and the flesh before I was
born-again, and now while by the spirit I desire to comply with God's
commandments with my mind, the flesh seems to rebel against the spirit:

  Romans 6:20 - When you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to
  righteousness. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:16-17 - But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify
  the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the
  Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are
  opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.
  (ESV)

My past behaviour would have led to death:

  Romans 6:21 - But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things
  of which you are now ashamed? The end of those things is death. (ESV)

So we should be slaves to God now. But this doesn't mean putting ourselves
'under the Torah', because the spirit helps us to keep the higher precepts of
the Law, to love God and our neighbour and follow Jesus Christ's
commandments:

  Romans 6:22-23- But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its
  end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God
  is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

Clearly there is a difference between actually keeping / complying with the
commandments of God and placing oneself under the Torah, because a new
creation still keeps the commandments of God:

  Romans 2:29 - But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that
  which is of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter; and his praise is
  not from men, but from God.

  I Corinthians 7:19 - For neither circumcision counts for anything nor
  uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. (ESV)

Also, Christ's law is within the Law of God:

  I Corinthians 9:21 - To those outside the law I became as one outside the
  law (not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ) that I
  might win those outside the law.

The Spirit helps us to actually fulfill the requirement of the Law. We do
this not putting ourself under the Torah as a yoke of slavery, but by walking
according to the Spirit, being a slave to Christ Jesus:

  Romans 8:4 - in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be
  fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the
  Spirit. (ESV)

OK, so in Christ Jesus, having received the Spirit, being a slave of Christ,
being yoked to Christ, we are set free:

  Galatians 5:1 - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore,
  and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. (ESV)

The Law (Torah), though it still exists, shouldn't be our Master once we are
placed into the body of Christ and receive the Spirit:

  Romans 7:1-3 - Or do you not know, brothers—for I am speaking to those who
  know the law—that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives?
  Thus a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if
  her husband dies she is released from the law of marriage. Accordingly, she
  will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her
  husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and
  if she marries another man she is not an adulteress. (ESV)

Having died to the Law (Torah) through the body of Christ - so that we may
belong to another, Christ:

  Romans 7:4 - Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through
  the body of Christ, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been
  raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God. (ESV)

We die to the Law to be slaves of God with Christ in us.

If we live in the flesh, then the Law (Torah) arouses our sinful passions:

  Romans 7:5 - For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions,
  aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death.
  (ESV)

We no longer serve God under the old written code but we now serve Him in the
new life of the Spirit:

  Romans 7:6 - But now we are released from the law, having died to that
  which held us captive, so that we serve not under the old written code but
  in the new life of the Spirit. (ESV)

When Paul mentions 'commandment' here, he's talking about "You shall not
covet":

  Romans 7:7 - What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet
  if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. I would not
  have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, You shall not
  covet. (ESV)

Knowledge of the Torah appears to 'make sin come alive'. Paul mentions the
Law (Torah) as including the commandments:

  Romans 7:8-11 - But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment,
  produced in me all kinds of covetousness. Apart from the law, sin lies
  dead. I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came,
  sin came alive and I died. The very commandment that promised life proved
  to be death to me. For sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment,
  deceived me and through it killed me. (ESV)

OK, so the Law (Torah) and the commandments within are holy and righteous and
good, but because of the sin in us, the commandments exposes the sin in us,
and even causes it to manifest.

OK, so the way the Law (Torah) currently still exists, while true, is used
for us as some kind of means of exposing sin:

  Romans 7:12-13 - So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and
  righteous and good. Did that which is good, then, bring death to me? By no
  means! It was sin, producing death in me through what is good, in order
  that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become
  sinful beyond measure. (ESV)

Sin dwells in the flesh and fights against complying with God's commandments:

  Romans 7:14-17 - For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the
  flesh, sold under sin. I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do
  what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. Now if I do what I do not
  want, I agree with the law, that it is good. So now it is no longer I who
  do it, but sin that dwells within me. (ESV)

In our minds we desire to do what is right by the 10 commandments / Mosaic
Law but our flesh creates problems in carrying it out:

  Romans 7:18-24 - For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my
  flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to
  carry it out. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want
  is what I keep on doing. Now if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I
  who do it, but sin that dwells within me. So I find it to be a law that
  when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law
  of God, in my inner being, but I see in my members another law waging war
  against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that
  dwells in my members. Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this
  body of death? (ESV)

The tragedy is the flesh serves the law of sin, but in with our mind we serve
the law of God, but we actually just follow Christ Jesus who has done it
already perfectly, and this means we don't make the Mosaic Law our way of
life, but we make Jesus our way of life:

  Romans 7:25 - Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I
  myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law
  of sin. (ESV)

Christ Jesus, our Lord is our righteousness. We serve Christ Jesus:

  I Corinthians 1:30 - He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom
  God made our wisdom and our righteousness and sanctification and
  redemption. (ESV)

We want to do what is right and we don't accept condemnation for when sin in
our flesh does the evil:

  Romans 8:1-2 - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in
  Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ
  Jesus from the law of sin and death. (ESV)

Sin in the flesh has been condemned. We walk according to the Spirit:

  Romans 8:3-4 - For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could
  not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin,
  he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of
  the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but
  according to the Spirit. (ESV)

Law of the Spirit: We must set our minds on the things of the Spirit:

  Romans 8:5-6 - For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on
  the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set
  their minds on the things of the Spirit. To set the mind on the flesh is
  death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace. (ESV)

We focus on the things of the Spirit, instead of the Torah, and we will
naturally comply with God's precepts, his law, etc.:

  Romans 8:7 - For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for
  it does not submit to God's law; indeed, it cannot. (ESV)

We are in the Spirit now, not the flesh, and we have Christ in us, and we are
not our own, by belong to Christ:

  Romans 8:8-9 - Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however,
  are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells
  in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to
  him. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 3:23 - and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:16 - From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to
  the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we
  regard him thus no longer. (ESV)

Christ is alive in us. The body is dead because of sin:

  Romans 8:10-12 - But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because
  of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. If the Spirit of him
  who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus
  from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit
  who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to
  live according to the flesh. (ESV)

We still have to forsake sin, but this isn't by placing ourselves under the
Torah. It's by getting baptised into Christ, serving God, being slaves of
Christ, being led by the Spirit, doing the will of God that we put sin to
death:

  Romans 8:13-17 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but
  if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For
  all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not
  receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received
  the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba! Father! The Spirit
  himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God, and if
  children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we
  suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. (ESV)

  Romans 9:30-33 - What shall we say, then? That Gentiles who did not pursue
  righteousness have attained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith;
  but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not
  succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith,
  but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling
  stone, as it is written, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling,
  and a rock of offense; and whoever believes in him will not be put to
  shame. (ESV)

Paul prays for Israel to be saved, saying they have a zeal for God, but not
by actual knowledge of God:

  Romans 10:1-3 - Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is
  that they may be saved. I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God,
  but not according to knowledge. For, being ignorant of the righteousness
  that comes from God, and seeking to establish their own, they did not
  submit to God's righteousness.

OK, so we need to submit to God's righteousness, and that means having faith
in God for what He has done sending Jesus Christ to die on the cross for our
sin and raising Him for our justification.

We need to receive the Spirit of God:

  Romans 8:9 - You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in
  fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit
  of Christ does not belong to him. (ESV)

We can still have the righteousness based on faith:

  Romans 10:4 - For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to
  everyone who believes. (ESV)

Instead of thinking we must make the Torah our way of life, we simply make
Jesus our Lord and Saviour:

  Romans 10:5-9 - For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on
  the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. But
  the righteousness based on faith says, Do not say in your heart, Who will
  ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down) or Who will descend
  into the abyss? (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead). But what does
  it say? The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart (that is, the
  word of faith that we proclaim); because, if you confess with your mouth
  that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the
  dead, you will be saved. (ESV)

This is submitting to the righteousness of God:

  Romans 10:10- For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with
  the mouth one confesses and is saved. (ESV)

21.4. The Torah

The Torah is the compilation of the first five books of the Hebrew Bible,
namely the books of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy. The
Torah is known as the Pentateuch or the Five Books of Moses by Christians.

  II Timothy 3:12-17 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, while evil people and impostors will go on from
  bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. But as for you, continue in
  what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you
  learned it and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred
  writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in
  Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for
  teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,
  that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work. (ESV)

Keeping to the precepts of the law is great, and making yourself accountable
to God with it, is great.

  Proverbs 28:9 - If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his
  prayer is an abomination. (ESV)

Even as Christ-followers, living righteously by loving God and our neighbour,
and putting a stop to sin is what we are called to do, and the Torah (law of
God) teaches us a lot about how to do that:

  Psalms 1:1-3 - Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the
  wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers;
  but his delight is in the law of the LORD, and on his law he meditates day
  and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its
  fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he
  prospers. (ESV)

Here, Paul actually argues for keeping the precepts of the Torah, and relates
actually keeping the precepts to those who have been circumcised in the
heart. Being a 'Jew' inwardly is unbound by time:

  Romans 2:25-29 - For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law,
  but if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So, if
  a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his
  uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically
  uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code
  and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one
  outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one
  inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by
  the letter. His praise is not from man but from God.

I believe what Paul says here is that Christians who observe and follow the
Torah in faith, not works, not being under it (because it doesn't condemn us
while we are under Christ's law), but making themselves accountable to God
over it, to receive praise from God, are Christian Jews. But we don't Judaise
Gentiles. And we follow Jesus Christ above all. We are slaves to Jesus
Christ, not the Mosaic Law.

  Luke 16:15-17 - And he said to them, You are those who justify yourselves
  before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is exalted among men is an
  abomination in the sight of God. The Law and the Prophets were until John;
  since then the good news of the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone
  forces his way into it. But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away
  than for one dot of the Law to become void.

  I Kings 11:38 - And if you will listen to all that I command you, and will
  walk in my ways, and do what is right in my eyes by keeping my statutes and
  my commandments, as David my servant did, I will be with you and will build
  you a sure house, as I built for David, and I will give Israel to you.

youtube.com: Put to Death the Deeds of the Body @time: 44 min 0 sec
Inheriting the world is huge and Therefore, don't worry too much about
whether you or God's redeemed Israel (not secular Israel) will one day
inherit Israel, which they will, along with the world.

22. Whoever puts their faith in Jesus, puts their faith in God

We must follow Jesus, similarly to how the Israelites followed Moses through
the Red Sea - it requires action.

  John 12:44-50 - And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes (G4100
  pisteuo) in me, believes (G4100 pisteuo) not in me but in him who sent me.
  And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. I have come into the world as
  light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone
  hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not
  come to judge the world but to save the world. The one who rejects me and
  does not receive my words has a judge; the word that I have spoken will
  judge him on the last day. For I have not spoken on my own authority, but
  the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say and
  what to speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say,
  therefore, I say as the Father has told me. (ESV)

This is similar to how the Israelites trusted in Moses, and they actually
were trusting in God.

  Exodus 14:14-16 - The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be
  silent. The Lord said to Moses, Why do you cry to me? Tell the people of
  Israel to go forward. Lift up your staff, and stretch out your hand over
  the sea and divide it, that the people of Israel may go through the sea on
  dry ground. (ESV)

  Exodus 14:21-22 - Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the
  LORD drove the sea back by a strong east wind all night and made the sea
  dry land, and the waters were divided. And the people of Israel went into
  the midst of the sea on dry ground, the waters being a wall to them on
  their right hand and on their left. (ESV)

  Exodus 14:31 - When Israel saw the great power which the Lord had used
  against the Egyptians, the people feared the Lord, and they believed (H539
  'aman) in the Lord and in His servant Moses. (ESV)

23. As we hold our faith in Christ, living for Christ, we will not have to worry
about perfect compliance to the law

  Galatians 5:16 - But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify
  the desires of the flesh. (ESV)

Trust, believe, obey, cleave to Jesus:

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (ESV)

At the end of the day, it's all about trusting Jesus. So belief is the most
important part of faith I think.

James, like all the other Apostles, still instructs us to obey Jesus - to
obey the gospel:

  James 1:21-24 - Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness
  and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your
  souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving
  yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is
  like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. For he looks
  at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. (ESV)

Doing the law is actually OK - it's compliance, and it's honestly not bad -
there are blessings involved with doing the law.

Without atonement, the law will begin to hurt us as we sin. We need to hold
faith in Jesus:

  Romans 7:10 - The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to
  me. (ESV)

As we walk in the light, as He is in the light, that is in the Truth, walking
in, believing, professing and obeying Jesus Christ in Truth, the blood of
Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin:

  I John 1:6-7 - If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in
  darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the
  light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the
  blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. (ESV)

There's nothing wrong with doing what the law requires (God can see):

  Romans 2:13-16 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous
  before God, but the doers (4163. poiétés) of the law who will be justified.
  For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law
  requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the
  law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while
  their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse
  or even excuse them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges
  the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. (ESV)

So there is the righteousness that is of 'continuing to do/comply with' the
Mosaic law. But the Mosaic law doesn't save. But Jesus does save:

  Galatians 3:12 - But the law is not of faith, rather The one who does them
  shall live by them. (ESV)

And there is the righteousness that is of 'holding faith' with God; This is
still possible while doing the law:

  Romans 9:30-33 - What shall we say, then? That Gentiles who did not pursue
  righteousness have attained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith;
  but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not
  succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith,
  but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling
  stone, as it is written, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling,
  and a rock of offense; and whoever believes in him will not be put to
  shame. (ESV)

The righteousness of 'holding faith' with God is where we believe God, trust
God, hold onto His promises, and obedience naturally comes out of trusting
God, but it's trusting God first and foremost, and we trust God that Jesus is
propitiation for our sin as we hold faith in Jesus:

  Hebrews 10:38 - but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks
  back, my soul has no pleasure in him. (ESV)

Paul is really emphasising the importance of maintaining that Jesus has set
us free from slavery even of having the law as master over us, in order to be
found in Him, serving and loving Him - holding faith in Him, and we will
naturally obey Him if we truly do trust Him, and our justification comes from
holding faith in Jesus. I believe Paul says all things are lawful for him
because He serves Christ. He's been washed and sanctified and He's actively
serving Christ and Christ is directing him and he's being led by the Holy
Spirit as an ambassador, he is following Jesus and thus he is not under the
law, but instead of the law being his master, Christ is his Master; thus Paul
is under the law of Christ. He still warns against sinful practices which we
must stop. If we are really following Jesus then we will naturally stop these
sinful practices, and if we fall short but we are holding our faith in Jesus
then we are still acceptable. Jesus has us covered as our Master is Jesus:

  I Corinthians 6:9-12 - Do you not know that the unrighteous will not
  inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually
  immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
  nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers
  will inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. But you were
  washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord
  Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. All things are lawful for me,
  but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful for me, but I will
  not be enslaved by anything. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Do All Things for the Glory of God {1 Corinthians 10:23-11:1}

I think he's also saying people who practice these things are not serving
Christ (it certainly doesn't sound like the type of behaviour of people who
have been washed and sanctified and living to serve Jesus as their Lord and
Saviour) so they wont (future tense) inherit the kingdom of God. We have to
be serving Christ and then while we are serving Christ, we have freedom. We
don't have freedom when we are outside of serving Christ. We have to be being
led by Christ to not be under the law of Moses. But also Gentiles should not
be Judaised and put under the law of Moses because Jesus has set us free from
the law of Moses to serve Him:

• sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice
homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers,
nor swindlers…

  I Corinthians 10:27 - If one of the unbelievers invites you to dinner and
  you are disposed to go, eat whatever is set before you without raising any
  question on the ground of conscience. (ESV)

Jesus' disciples were obediently serving Jesus and while they were doing what
Jesus said, the following totally applies. We live in faith as we are serving
Jesus:

  Luke 10:8 - Whenever you enter a town and they receive you, eat what is set
  before you. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 6:12 - All things are lawful for me, but not all things are
  helpful. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be enslaved by
  anything. (ESV)

  Romans 14:17-22 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever
  thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us
  pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Do not, for the sake
  of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is
  wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to
  eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble.
  The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one
  who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. (ESV)

  Mark 7:18-19 - And he said to them, Then are you also without
  understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside
  cannot defile him, since it enters not his heart but his stomach, and is
  expelled? (Thus he declared all foods clean.) (ESV)

We should seek to build one another up rather than damage our neighbour's
faith in Jesus by issues of of law compliance. If they serve Christ they are
acceptable to God:

  I Corinthians 10:23 - All things are lawful, but not all things are
  helpful. All things are lawful, but not all things build up. (ESV)

The work of God in trusting in Jesus:

  John 6:29 - Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you believe
  in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

If they hold a good conscience with God and hold genuine faith in Jesus
Christ, we don't want to damage that. If they're fulfilling Christ's law
(i.e. loving one another with Christ's love), that should be acceptable to
the brethren:

  Romans 13:8 - Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one
  who loves another has fulfilled the law. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 3:6 - who has made us competent to be ministers of a new
  covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but
  the Spirit gives life. (ESV)

I still think that fulfilling Christ's law is important but actually the most
important thing is having a saving faith in Jesus which is trusting on God's
promises, and we have Jesus' righteousness if we are found in Jesus:

There is a lawful way of using the law, and that's to actually comply with it
ourself. But using it to judge others is not being compliant with the law,
it's being a judge of it:

  I Timothy 1:8 - Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully,
  (ESV)

  James 4:12 - There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save
  and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? (ESV)

But endeavoring to comply with the law doesn't save a person, only having
faith in Jesus saves, because through faith in Jesus, we have His blood as
atonement for our sin, and through obedience to Jesus, He helps us to escape
sinful thoughts and practices, and to behave in a way that approaches God's
will for us to love Him with all our heart, soul, mind and strength, and our
neighbour as ourself.

23.1. We should observe the law - but be a doer, and avoid judging others with
the law

  Matthew 23:2-7 - The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so
  practice and observe whatever they tell you—but not what they do. For they
  preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and
  lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move
  them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For
  they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long, and they love
  the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues and
  greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: How Preachers Grow Graceless

  Proverbs 28:9 - If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his
  prayer is an abomination. (ESV)

24. Mosaic Law, and progressing from having hope in Moses to having hope in Jesus

I enjoyed this video, but I still am of the opinion that keeping the Mosaic
law is not necessary, placing oneself under it (to adhere strictly to it) is
contrary to grace, but following it by faith (receiving our justification
from Jesus by obedience to Jesus) is not prohibited, so long as it is pursued
by faith and submitting to God's righteousness:

• youtube.com: Public Debate - Should Christians Keep The Law?
• The law is good and just and Jesus both obeyed it flawlessly, but He also
fulfilled it like a prophesy:

  Acts 3:18 - But what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets, that
  his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled. (ESV)

Christians follow Jesus first and foremost:

  Matthew 12:3-8 - He said to them, Have you not read what David did when he
  was hungry, and those who were with him: how he entered the house of God
  and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat
  nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests? Or have you not
  read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the
  Sabbath and are guiltless? I tell you, something greater than the temple is
  here. And if you had known what this means, I desire mercy, and not
  sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless. For the Son of Man
  is lord of the Sabbath.

Christians wish to comply with the law of God and do so in their mind, but
know that the flesh is hostile to the law:

  Romans 7:25 - Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I
  myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law
  of sin. (ESV)

Christians comply with the law by faith, not works:

  Luke 6:9 - And Jesus said to them, I ask you, is it lawful on the Sabbath
  to do good or to do harm, to save life or to destroy it? (ESV)

God's commandments through Jesus is within the Law of God. Faith in Jesus is
how we comply with the law of God:

  I Corinthians 9:21 - To those outside the law I became as one outside the
  law (not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ) that I
  might win those outside the law. (ESV)

Christians do not Judaize (Christians do not instruct Gentiles to conform to
Judaism):

  Ignatius to the Magnesians 10 - Let us not, therefore, be insensible to His
  kindness. For were He to reward us according to our works, we should cease
  to be. Therefore, having become His disciples, let us learn to live
  according to the principles of Christianity. For whosoever is called by any
  other name besides this, is not of God. Lay aside, therefore, the evil, the
  old, the sour leaven, and be ye changed into the new leaven, which is Jesus
  Christ. Be ye salted in Him, lest any one among you should be corrupted,
  since by your savour ye shall be convicted. It is absurd to profess Christ
  Jesus, and to Judaize. For Christianity did not embrace Judaism, but
  Judaism Christianity, that so every tongue which believeth might be
  gathered together to God.

I read the following as, as we have faith in Jesus, following Him, where we
have fallen short, Jesus has covered us, but we still try to live
righteously. We still live with faith in God.

And when we continue to sin, Jesus is our High Priest and Advocate, and
covers us, as we continue to have faith in Him.

The 10 Commandments and the 2 Great commandments are special because when
followed from the heart they show people how to love God and one's neighbour.

And we are commanded (even as Christians not under the law) to love our
neighbours:

  John 15:16 - You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that
  you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that
  whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. (ESV)

  I John 3:21-24 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment,
  that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another,
  just as he has commanded us. Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him,
  and he in them. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit
  whom he has given us. (ESV)

The rest of the Mosaic law is still useful for training in righteousness. It
shows people how to live in obedience to God and in love for God and one's
neighbour. But we are not under the Mosaic law, but we are under the law of
Christ. We have faith in Christ.

We can pursue the righteousness that is through faith (G4100 pisteuo) in
Jesus Christ:

Polycarp 8:1
Let us therefore without ceasing hold fast by our hope and by the earnest of
our righteousness, which is Jesus Christ who took up our sins in His own body
upon the tree, who did no sin, neither was guile found in His mouth, but for
our sakes He endured all things, that we might live in Him.

We must set our hope on Jesus, not on Moses.

  John 5:45 - Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one
  who accuses you: Moses, on whom you have set your hope. (ESV)

  Acts 7:35 - “This Moses whom they disowned, saying, ‘Who made you a ruler
  and a judge?’ is the one whom God sent to be both a ruler and a deliverer
  with the help of the angel who appeared to him in the thorn bush.

Moses wrote about Jesus:

  Acts 7:37 - This is the Moses who said to the sons of Israel, ‘God will
  raise up for you a prophet like me from your brethren.’

Moses said we must listen to Jesus:

  Deuteronomy 18:15-19 - The LORD your God will raise up for you a prophet
  like me from among you, from your brothers—it is to him you shall listen —
  just as you desired of the LORD your God at Horeb on the day of the
  assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God
  or see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the LORD said to me, They
  are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like
  you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he
  shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to
  my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him.
  (ESV)

  Acts 7:52-55 - Which one of the prophets did your fathers not persecute?
  They killed those who had previously announced the coming of the Righteous
  One, whose betrayers and murderers you have now become; you who received
  the law as ordained by angels, and yet did not keep it.” Now when they
  heard this, they were cut to the quick, and they began gnashing their teeth
  at him. But being full of the Holy Spirit, he gazed intently into heaven
  and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God;

James, like all the other Apostles, still instructs us to obey Jesus - to
obey the gospel:

  James 1:21-24 - Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness
  and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your
  souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving
  yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is
  like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. For he looks
  at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. (ESV)

We must obey Jesus:

  Romans 10:4 - For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to
  everyone who believes (G4100 pisteuo has faith in Jesus).

(G4100 pisteuo) is practicing faith.

This means, yes that by practicing faith in Jesus, we can pursue
righteousness - Jesus' righteousness given to us.

  II Peter 1:1 - Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To
  those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the
  righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:

We obtain a strong faith by the righteousness of Jesus Christ.

This requires obedience to Jesus:

  John 15:16 - You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that
  you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that
  whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. (ESV)

A person must receive the word:

• and not fall away
• and not let worldly desire distract from, and inhibit following and
seeking Jesus
• and bear fruit

  Mark 4:14-20 - The sower sows the word. And these are the ones along the
  path, where the word is sown: when they hear, Satan immediately comes and
  takes away the word that is sown in them. And these are the ones sown on
  rocky ground: the ones who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it
  with joy. And they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while;
  then, when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word,
  immediately they fall away. And others are the ones sown among thorns. They
  are those who hear the word, but the cares of the world and the
  deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and choke
  the word, and it proves unfruitful. But those that were sown on the good
  soil are the ones who hear the word and accept it and bear fruit,
  thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold.

Because we keep His commandments, we receive from him whatever we ask. And
our heart does not condemn us. And we have confidence before God.

  Hebrews 13:18 - Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear
  conscience, desiring to act honorably in all things. (ESV)

By this we know he abides in us:

• He has given us His Spirit.

  I John 3:21-24 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment,
  that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another,
  just as he has commanded us. Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him,
  and he in them. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit
  whom he has given us. (ESV)

We abide in Him, and He in us.

We keep His commandments, and we abide in Him:

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

We are in Jesus Christ. Eternal life is in Jesus Christ:

  I John 5:20 - And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us
  understanding, so that we may know him who is true; and we are in him who
  is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.
  (ESV)

By having an obedient, trusting faith (which fundamentally includes belief)
in Jesus, following, we have Jesus' righteousness.

I read this as we are under grace and not under the Mosaic law, but we must
bear fruit of repentance from disbelief and sin, and becoming good instead of
evil, bearing fruit in our life which glorifies God in our bodies, hearts and
deeds:

• obedience leads to righteousness
• slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification
• at its end, eternal life

  Romans 6:13-23 - Do not present your members to sin as instruments for
  unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been
  brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for
  righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not
  under law but under grace? By no means! Do you not know that if you present
  yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you
  obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to
  righteousness? But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. When you
  were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. But what
  fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now
  ashamed? The end of those things is death. But now that you have been set
  free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to
  sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death,
  but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

25. Commandments and faith

Faith receives, even the free gift of eternal life from God:

  Romans 6:23 - For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is
  eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

  Romans 11:29 - For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. (ESV)

  Isaiah 55:11 - so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth; it shall
  not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and
  shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. (ESV)

Love gives:

  I Corinthians 13:13 - So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but
  the greatest of these is love. (ESV)

  Acts 20:35 - In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this
  way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he
  himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. (ESV)

There's no law against love:

  I Corinthians 13:1 - If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but
  have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:22-23 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
  patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control;
  against such things there is no law. (ESV)

youtube.com: How to Restore a Sinning Saint: Galatians 6:1-5, Part 1 @time: 4
min 54 sec
This is an illustration of why we need specific commandments. Remember last
time I argued that it's not enough to say, "Walk by the Spirit." You need
specific illustrations, and this (Galatians 6:1-5) is a good example of that.
Suppose somebody said, "No, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
patience, kindness, goodness, meekness, gentleness, self-control. If we live
by those, we wont get in other people's lives and make lives miserable for
them, and bring out their sin into the open. How would you answer that? We
would answer it by saying, "Look, the Holy Spirit Himself in chapter 6, verse
1 of Galatians has told us that is not a right application of the fruit of
the Spirit. You are drawing inferences from the fruit of the Spirit that are
unbiblical; They're unfaithful. That's why we need the whole Scripture, not
just vague statements about walking according to the Spirit or walking in
love. We need specifics, and this is a specific. If you find somebody in
transgression, love is not passive. Love does not turn away. Love doesn't
sweep it under the rug." - Rather, you who are spiritual (walking by the
Spirit) should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. The spiritual person is
bearing fruit of the Spirit. They are walking by the Spirit. They are keeping
in step with the Spirit.

There's certainly no law against God's commandments:

  I John 5:3 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 14:12 - Here is a call for the endurance of the saints,
  those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus.

I read this as 'A saint is someone who has faith in Jesus and keeps His
commandments (pursuing by faith, not works), and keeps the commandments of
God'. A saint is someone who has faith in Jesus and also loves as God
commanded.

I read the commandments as being the Great commandments, 10 Commandments and
faith in Jesus Christ, and potentially various other commandments from the
Mosaic law if you know about them, or whatever subset a person practices by
faith making themself accountable to God.

Keep in mind that God commanded us to listen to Jesus, and Jesus'
commandments came from God, so as long as a person is keeping Jesus'
commandments, they are also keeping the requirement of God's commandments,
but there are many commandments of God, even in the Torah.

  Galatians 5:14 - For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself.

AMEN!! Loving your neighbour as yourself involves forgiving your neighbour,
and not bearing a grudge.

But people can take this to the point of laying down one's life for their
friends:

  John 15:13 - Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his
  life for his friends. (ESV)

But the Mosaic Law, if it's pursued at all, should be pursued by faith and
not by works, and it's not pursued for justification. Justification comes
from faith in Christ.

We may abide in Jesus' love by keeping His commandments, and we may abide in
Father God's love by keeping His commandments. A saint, I think is someone
who does this:

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

  John 16:27 - for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me
  and have believed that I came from God. (ESV)

  Romans 9:30-32 - What shall we say, then? That Gentiles who did not pursue
  righteousness have attained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith;
  but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not
  succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith,
  but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling
  stone, (ESV)

25.0.1. Christians do not Judaize (Christians do not instruct Gentiles to
conform to Judaism)

  Ignatius to the Magnesians 10 - Let us not, therefore, be insensible to His
  kindness. For were He to reward us according to our works, we should cease
  to be. Therefore, having become His disciples, let us learn to live
  according to the principles of Christianity. For whosoever is called by any
  other name besides this, is not of God. Lay aside, therefore, the evil, the
  old, the sour leaven, and be ye changed into the new leaven, which is Jesus
  Christ. Be ye salted in Him, lest any one among you should be corrupted,
  since by your savour ye shall be convicted. It is absurd to profess Christ
  Jesus, and to Judaize. For Christianity did not embrace Judaism, but
  Judaism Christianity, that so every tongue which believeth might be
  gathered together to God.

25.0.2. Jesus' commandments don't contradict the rest of the commandments

Also God's commandments (especially the 10 Commandments; loving God and your
neighbour) are still binding on us - written on our heart when we get
born-again and after being born-again we follow them in Spirit, but they
don't bind on us in a way that condemns us if we break them, but we want to
follow them.

Jesus fulfilled the law => We have the Spirit of Christ => We are led by the
Spirit and naturally want to follow the law in faith but the world opposes us
because when a person actually follows the commandments, they do not lie, do
not commit adultery, do not commit idolatry, etc. and that means a person can
be 'taken advantage of' by unfaithful people who do not obey God's
commandments but exploit others who follow God.

But we neither pursue the law by works, nor seek it to be justified. We are
freed from being under the law, and free from the curse of the law to serve
and obey God in actuality, being under God's grace.

  Romans 7:6 - But now we are released from the law, having died to that
  which held us captive, so that we serve not under the old written code but
  in the new life of the Spirit. (ESV)

I think that being led by the Spirit is still acting in a way that without
observing the law is technically compliant with the law, and that is because
we are led by the Spirit.

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

By being led by the Spirit, we are not under the law. And we have Jesus
Christ as our Advocate and High Priest.

  I John 2:1 - My little children, I am writing these things to you so that
  you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the
  Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.

Nevertheless, when we judge others by the law, we're judged by the same
standard.

  Matthew 7:1 - Judge not, that you be not judged. (ESV)

But if someone judges you by the law, it seems right to submit to the law,
unless it is that you are actually being obedient to Jesus (being led by the
Spirit / following Jesus' commandments), in which you should carry on being
obedient to Jesus. The law is meant for sinners.

  Matthew 23:2-3 - The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so
  practice and observe whatever they tell you—but not what they do. For they
  preach, but do not practice. (ESV)

We then may observe the law and keep it in faith, accountable to God for it,
seeking God's approval, and do not teach others to annul even the smallest
commandment, and as we are led by the Spirit (obeying and following Jesus) we
are not under the law, nor under its curse, and we are not seeking to be
justified by the law, and if we are being obedient servants of Jesus then we
naturally submit to / comply with God's law.

  Romans 8:7 - For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for
  it does not submit to God's law; indeed, it cannot. (ESV)

When someone uses the law to judge, comply if they are right, but do not act
like the hypocrites.

  John 7:24 - Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment.

  Matthew 23:2-7 - The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so
  practice and observe whatever they tell you —but not what they do. For they
  preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and
  lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move
  them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For
  they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long, and they love
  the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues and
  greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others. (ESV)

But the mind set on the Spirit does submit to God's law meaning that they may
walk in God's statues, and therefore the mind set on the Spirit is not
hostile to God.

  Ezekiel 11:19-20 - And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will
  put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give
  them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules
  and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 4:13 - And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded
  you to perform, that is, the Ten Commandments, and he wrote them on two
  tablets of stone.

  Romans 10:5 - For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the
  law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them.

  Romans 13:9 - The commandments, You shall not commit adultery, You shall
  not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet, and any other
  commandment, are summed up in this word: You shall love your neighbor as
  yourself.

There's no contradiction between what the 10 commandments say and loving
one's neighbour, i.e. for the way in which we must live entering into life.

  Psalms 103:17-19 - But the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting
  to everlasting on those who fear him, and his righteousness to children's
  children, to those who keep his covenant and remember to do his
  commandments. The Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his
  kingdom rules over all.

  Romans 5:1-6 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also
  obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice
  in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings,
  knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces
  character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame,
  because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit
  who has been given to us. For while we were still weak, at the right time
  Christ died for the ungodly.

25.0.3. However, we must submit to God's righteousness through faith in Jesus
Christ - this is what saves

It's not with the mind that a person believes, but with the heart:

  Romans 10:6-13 - But the righteousness based on faith says, Do not say in
  your heart, Who will ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down) or
  Who will descend into the abyss? (that is, to bring Christ up from the
  dead). But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth and in
  your heart (that is, the word of faith that we proclaim); because, if you
  confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that
  God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one
  believes (G4100 pisteuo) and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses
  and is saved. For the Scripture says, Everyone who believes in him will not
  be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; the
  same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For
  everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.

But what does it take for the heart to truly believe? Because that's the
condition. When the heart truly believes, a person is obedient.

More obedience may still need to take place for that individual to arrive at
justifying faith, and God may be allowing you to come to your faith.

It does say 'you will be saved', not 'you are saved'.

And the word confess I think means to admit with repentance - an admission of
guilt to God and change of mind resulting in confessing that Jesus is Lord
and that God indeed raised Him from the dead, and that you needed Him to do
so, because His name means Jesus (The LORD Saves), Christ (Annointed Messiah,
Saviour), Son of God.

If a person confesses this truthfully, they professes that they submit to the
righteousness of God.

That's a little bit loaded. It results in a heart growing in obedience
towards God, and agreement with God over His precepts and His Truth.

Also, when confessing sin, a person is agreeing with God's precepts.

And I believe it's the resulting obedience to God that ends up saving that
person, even if that obedience hasn't produced any work yet other than
belief. God is the one that saves and justifies.

Then Jesus hits us with this:

  John 15:16 - You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that
  you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that
  whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.

  Ephesians 1:4 - even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the
  world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love

So while we might think we have done something, God had planned it in
advance, and the entire thing is grace - but that doesn't mean from our
perspective it does not look like we need to obey God - because we still need
to have faith and do something. And if we don't do anything then we are
asking God to do it for us.

Since the Bible does not teach that all people will be saved because they
remain disobedient, I think we should teach people that they should do
something; That they should repent from sin and they should repent from
unbelief if they want to be saved from sin and leading to death, and if they
want to enter into the light of the truth, and enter into a relationship with
God.

The root of disobedience/rebellion is unbelief/denial.

  John 20:27-28 - Then he said to Thomas, Put your finger here, and see my
  hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve,
  but believe. Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God!

Jesus helped Thomas believe by giving him a commandment to do. It's implied
that Thomas obeyed and arrived at belief:

  John 20:29-31 - Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen
  me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. Now Jesus
  did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not
  written in this book; but these are written so that you may believe that
  Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have
  life in his name.

  Mark 6:11 - And if any place will not receive you and they will not listen
  to you, when you leave, shake off the dust that is on your feet as a
  testimony against them.

25.0.4. Abraham's faith is a pattern for us

Abraham believed God's promise of his inheritance:

  Genesis 12:1-3 - Now the LORD said to Abram, Go from your country and your
  kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I
  will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name
  great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you,
  and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the
  earth shall be blessed. (ESV)

  Genesis 26:4 - I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and
  will give to your offspring all these lands. And in your offspring all the
  nations of the earth shall be blessed, (ESV)

We trust Jesus for our inheritance, which is eternal life:

  Matthew 19:29 - And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or
  father or mother or children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a
  hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. (ESV)

The promise is eternal life which is knowing and never being disconnected
from God, our source of life, the One True God, Father God, and Jesus, God's
Son:

  John 3:16 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. (ESV)

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

To be justified by working faith, a person must have the faith like Abraham's
but in God the Father of Christ Jesus, and our faith is in Christ Jesus as
Father God sent Jesus.

Sermon
youtube.com: What Do We Believe?

We trust/believe in the one true God who raised Jesus Christ our Lord from
the dead. We have peace with God through trusting faith:

  Romans 4:23-25,5:1-2 - But the words it was counted to him were not written
  for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe
  in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for
  our trespasses and raised for our justification. Therefore, since we have
  been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus
  Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace
  in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. (ESV)

We have faith in Almighty God who gives life to the dead and calls into
existence the things that do not exist. Our faith is modeled on Abraham's
faith:

  Romans 4:16-17 - That is why it depends on faith, in order that the promise
  may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring—not only to the
  adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham,
  who is the father of us all, as it is written, I have made you the father
  of many nations—in the presence of the God in whom he believed, who gives
  life to the dead and calls into existence the things that do not exist.
  (ESV)

youtube.com: Who Is Yahweh? {@desiringGod} @time: 5 min 54 sec

God is who He is means all the universe is by comparison to God as nothing.
All the universe by comparison to God is as nothing. Contingent dependent
reality is to absolute independent reality as a shadow to substance, as echo
to thunderclap, as bubble to ocean. All that we see, all that you are amazed
by in your land or around the world, all the world, all the galaxies is
compared to God as nothing. If you put God on one side of the scales and the
universe on the other side of the scales the universe goes up like air or
dust on the scale.

Isaiah 40:17 - All the nations are as nothing before him, they are accounted
by him as less than nothing and emptiness. (ESV)

By faith Abraham trusted God, was faithful to God, believed God and obeyed
God. So the faith has the fruit of walking in the footsteps of the faith that
our father Abraham had before he was circumcised. I think it is especially
necessary for those who are circumcised (under the law) to maintain the faith
of Abraham:

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

Read
answersingenesis.org: 2292. Abraham, A Pattern For Believers | Answers in
Genesis

Abraham is the father of the faithful.

Our faith still follows the pattern of Abraham:

  I Peter 3:5-6 - For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to
  adorn themselves, by submitting to their husbands, as Sarah obeyed Abraham,
  calling him lord. And you are her children, if you do good and do not fear
  anything that is frightening. (ESV)

In Christ Jesus, only faith working through love matters (the type of faith
that produces love), not circumcision, nor uncircumcision, but faith in Jesus
Christ, working through love:

  Galatians 5:2-6 - Look: I, Paul, say to you that if you accept
  circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify again to
  every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole
  law. You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law;
  you have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by faith, we
  ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus
  neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith
  working through love. (ESV)

The faith which we have that produces love, we have in Christ Jesus our Lord:

  Romans 5:1-2 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also
  obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice
  in hope of the glory of God. (ESV)

25.0.5. Love never ends. Jesus' words never end.

  1 Corinthians 13:8 - Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass
  away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 24:35 - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass
  away. (ESV)

  Luke 16:16-17 - The Law and the Prophets were until John; since then the
  good news of the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone forces his way
  into it. But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one
  dot of the Law to become void. (ESV)

25.0.6. The new heavens and new earth

This is cool:

  Isaiah 65:17 - For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the
  former things shall not be remembered or come into mind.

I personally am holding out for an entirely new heavens and earth:

  I Corinthians 7:29-31 - This is what I mean, brothers: the appointed time
  has grown very short. From now on, let those who have wives live as though
  they had none, and those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and
  those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing, and those who buy as
  though they had no goods, and those who deal with the world as though they
  had no dealings with it. For the present form of this world is passing
  away. (ESV)

We are waiting for a new heavens and earth in which righteousness dwells:

  II Peter 3:5-7 - For they deliberately overlook this fact, that the heavens
  existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and through water
  by the word of God, and that by means of these the world that then existed
  was deluged with water and perished. But by the same word the heavens and
  earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of
  judgment and destruction of the ungodly. (ESV)

The passing away of the heavens and earth looks like the destruction of the
present heavens and earth, including the planets, galaxies, etc. and the
works done on earth will be exposed. It's an extreme event:

  II Peter 3:10 - But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then
  the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be
  burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it
  will be exposed. (ESV)

The Works of Philo Judaeus, Philo of Alexandria (20BC - 50AD), On the Life of
Moses II
But the enactments of this lawgiver are firm, not shaken by commotions, not
liable to alteration, but stamped as it were with the seal of nature herself,
and they remain firm and lasting from the day on which they were first
promulgated to the present one, and there may well be a hope that they will
remain to all future time, as being immortal, as long as the sun and the
moon, and the whole heaven and the whole world shall endure.

The first heaven and first earth pass away and there is a new heaven and a
new earth with no suffering. In the new heaven and new earth, the former
things have passed away:

• death is no more, and
• there is no mourning,
• nor crying,
• nor pain.

  Revelation of John 21:1-5 - Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for
  the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no
  more. And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven
  from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud
  voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with
  man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself
  will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their
  eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning nor
  crying nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away. And he who
  was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he
  said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. (ESV)

I believe though, that the LORD is making an entirely new heavens and a new
earth.

  Isaiah 66:22 - For as the new heavens and the new earth that I makeshall
  remain before me, says the Lord, so shall your offspring and your name
  remain.

  II Peter 3:13 - But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens
  and a new earth in which righteousness dwells.

  Revelation of John 21:1-7 - Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for
  the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no
  more. And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven
  from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud
  voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with
  man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself
  will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their
  eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning nor
  crying nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away. And he who
  was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he
  said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. And he
  said to me, It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the
  end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life
  without payment. The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will
  be his God and he will be my son.

  Revelation of John 22:12-14 - Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my
  recompense with me, to repay everyone for what he has done. I am the Alpha
  and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. Blessed
  are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree
  of life and that they may enter the city by the gates. (ESV)

25.0.7. Being sanctified in the Truth

Within Christ, Jesus, the head of the body of Christ, has the perfect vision:

  Matthew 7:3-5 - Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but
  do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your
  brother, Let me take the speck out of your eye, when there is the log in
  your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and
  then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.
  (ESV)

Then You have Father God, who as Jesus was in the flesh and at that time,
Jesus referred to as having knowledge of the end, which Jesus, God's Son,
didn't have in that moment:

  Matthew 24:36 - But concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the
  angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. (ESV)

I believe that Jesus is the Alpha and the Omega. This declaration in
Revelation shows that Jesus now sees the end:

  Revelation of John 22:13-15 - I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and
  the last, the beginning and the end. Blessed are those who wash their
  robes, so that they may have the right to the tree of life and that they
  may enter the city by the gates. Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and the
  sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and
  practices falsehood. (ESV)

• blueletterbible.org
05-in-what-sense-is-jesus-beginning-of-gods-creation.cfm: In What Sense
Is Jesus the Beginning of God's Creation? by Don Stewart
• mail.biblehub.com 3-14.htm: Revelation 3:14 Interlinear: 'And to the
messenger of the assembly of the Laodiceans write: These things saith the
Amen, the witness – the faithful and true – the chief of the creation of
God;

  Revelation of John 3:14 - And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write:
  The words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of
  God's creation. (ESV)

  Acts 7:56 - And he said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of
  Man standing at the right hand of God. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Chris Tomlin - How Great Is Our God {Live In Nashville 2022} ft.
Hillsong UNITED

  Philippians 2:9-11 - Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on
  him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every
  knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every
  tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
  (ESV)

AMEN!!

Jesus Christ has the name above all names. Jesus Christ is Lord! Jesus Christ
is Jehovah. Jesus Christ is Immanuel. AMEN!!

25.0.8. A study on the pronunciation of Yhvh, the proper name of the God of
Israel

biblehub.com 3-16.htm: Malachi 3:16 Interlinear: Then have those fearing
Jehovah spoken one to another, And Jehovah doth attend and hear, And written
is a book of memorial before Him Of those fearing Jehovah, And of those
esteeming His name.
Then spoke those who feared Yahweh one to another and listened Yahweh and
heard [them] so was written a book of remembrance before Him for those who
fear Yahweh and who meditate on His name

|  227  1696             3372             3068        376  854
|  ’āz  niḏ·bə·rū        yir·’ê           Yah·weh     ’îš  ’eṯ-
|  אז   נדברו            יראי             יהוה        איש  את־
|  Then spoke            those who feared Yahweh      one  to
|  Adv  V‑Nifal‑Perf‑3cp Adj‑mpc          N‑proper‑ms N‑ms Prep
| 
|    7453          7181                              3068
|    rê·‘ê·hū;     way·yaq·šêḇ                       Yah·weh
|  ､ רעהו        ､ ויקשב                             יהוה
|     another       and listened                      Yahweh
|     N‑msc | 3ms   Conj‑w | V‑Hifil‑ConsecImperf‑3ms N‑proper‑ms
|  
|   8085                            3789
|   way·yiš·mā‘,                    way·yik·kā·ṯêḇ
|   וישמע                           ויכתב
|   and heard [them]                so was written
|   Conj‑w | V‑Qal‑ConsecImperf‑3ms Conj‑w | V‑Nifal‑ConsecImperf‑3ms
|  
|   5612   2146           6440                 3372
|   sê·per zik·kā·rō·wn   lə·pā·nāw            lə·yir·’ê
|   ספר    זכרון          לפניו                ליראי
|   a book of remembrance before Him           for those who fear
|   N‑msc  N‑ms           Prep‑l | N‑cpc | 3ms Prep‑l | Adj‑mpc
|  
|     3068        2803                                8034
|     Yah·weh,    ū·lə·ḥō·šə·ḇê                       šə·mōw.
|   ､ יהוה        ולחשבי                            . שמו׃
|     Yahweh      and who meditate                    on His name
|     N‑proper‑ms Conj‑w, Prep‑l | V‑Qal‑Prtcpl‑mpc   N‑msc | 3ms

ὄνομα ónoma, on'-om-ah
from a presumed derivative of the base of G1097 (compare G3685); a "name"
(literally or figuratively) (authority, character):—called, (+ sur-)name(-d).

(no term)
youtube.com: Where did the name "Jesus" come from?

(no term)
youtube.com: Is the name of God pronounced Yehovah?

25.0.9. The Mosaic law is not abolished but Jesus fulfilled it like a prophesy

  Luke 16:17 - But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for
  one dot of the Law to become void.

The righteousness we have through faith in Jesus Christ is needed whether
someone keeps the Mosaic law or not.

Not that I keep the Mosaic law in its entirety, nor are circumcised. But I
try to keep the Great commandments and the 10 Commandments out of faith (and
a relationship with God) and follow parts of the Mosaic law, but I have faith
in Jesus Christ for the righteousness that comes through faith because I need
that because my own righteousness will never be enough without faith in Jesus
for God's righteousness imputed to me.

Thank You God.

And I follow pursue the commandments by faith and not works.

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

A person must be at least willing to do His will - obedience is at the
essence of faith:

  John 7:17 - If anyone is willing to do His will, he will know of the
  teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from Myself.

There is still obedience required. Obedience is intrinsic to faith. The
Israelites didn't "work for God" to be saved from the Egyptians, but they
"walked obediently for God":

  Exodus 14:14-16 - The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be
  silent. The Lord said to Moses, Why do you cry to me? Tell the people of
  Israel to go forward. Lift up your staff, and stretch out your hand over
  the sea and divide it, that the people of Israel may go through the sea on
  dry ground.

AMEN!!

  Galatians 2:17 – But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too
  were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not!
  (ESV)

AMEN!!

  Romans 10:3-4 - For, being ignorant of the righteousness that comes from
  God, and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's
  righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to
  everyone who believes.

This is why we are not under the law because we have the righteousness that
comes through faith in Christ.

But we are under the law of faith in Christ.

And we are supposed to keep the commandments by pursuing them in faith.

If we teach others to annul even the least of the commandments and annul them
ourselves, this I don't think condemn us but is prideful and result in being
called the least in the Kingdom.

  Matthew 5:19 - Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these
  commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the
  kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called
  great in the kingdom of heaven.

25.0.10. A person must begin repenting of sin and have a faithful heart towards
God to receive the Holy Spirit

  Acts 8:9: But there was a man named Simon, who had previously practiced
  magic in the city and amazed the people of Samaria, saying that he himself
  was somebody great.

  Acts 8:18-21 - Now when Simon saw that the Spirit was given through the
  laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money, saying, Give me
  this power also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy
  Spirit. But Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you, because you
  thought you could obtain the gift of God with money! You have neither part
  nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not right before God.

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:14 - so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come
  to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through
  faith.

25.0.11. I believe the 10 commandments are special, and Jesus calls us to
follow them from the heart

Otherwise why would God make a distinction in Exodus 16 between commandments
(mitsvah) and instructions/law (towrah)?

  Genesis 26:5 - because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge, my
  commandments, my statutes, and my laws. (ESV)

  Exodus 15:26 - saying, If you will diligently listen to the voice of the
  Lord your God, and do that which is right in his eyes, and give ear to his
  commandments and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on
  you that I put on the Egyptians, for I am the Lord, your healer. (ESV)

  Exodus 16:28 - And the Lord said to Moses, How long will you refuse to keep
  my commandments and my laws? (ESV)

  Exodus 16:28 - Then the Lord (H3068 Yhovah) said (H559 'amar) to Moses
  (H4872 Mosheh), “How (H575 'an) long (H5704 `ad) do you refuse (H3985
  ma'en) to keep (H8104 shamar) My commandments (H4687 mitsvah) and My
  instructions (H8451 towrah)? (NASB)

  Exodus 20:5 - You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the Lord
  your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the
  children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me, (ESV)

  Exodus 20:6 - but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me
  and keep my commandments. (ESV)

  Exodus 34:28 - So he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights.
  He neither ate bread nor drank water. And he wrote on the tablets the words
  of the covenant, the Ten Commandments. (ESV)

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us. (ESV)

 1. The Apostles also placed requirements on the Gentiles similar to the 10
commandments

  Acts 15:28-29 - For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to
  lay on you no greater burden than these requirements: that you abstain
  from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what
  has been strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves
  from these, you will do well. Farewell.

25.0.12. Faith in Jesus justifies but Jesus helps us to follow the commandments

  Mark 10:27 - Jesus looked at them and said, With man it is impossible, but
  not with God. For all things are possible with God.

25.0.13. Grace from Jesus is essential. Faith in Jesus is essential, even for
the one who pursues the law

  Galatians 5:4 - You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by
  the law; you have fallen away from grace.

  I John 2:1 - My little children, I am writing these things to you so that
  you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the
  Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.

25.0.14. The doers of the law are justified. Jesus judges. No-one can be
justified without faith

Actually complying with the law (not breaking it) is good:

  Romans 2:13-16 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous
  before God, but the doers (4163. poiétés) of the law who will be justified.
  For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law
  requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the
  law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while
  their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse
  or even excuse them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges
  the secrets of men by Christ Jesus.

  James 4:11-12 - Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one
  who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against the
  law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the
  law but a judge. There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to
  save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? (ESV)

 1. I still think there is hope for people who do what the law requires, and
have not yet heard the gospel

  I Timothy 4:10-11 - For to this end we toil and strive, because we have
  our hope set on the living God, who is the Savior of all people,
  especially of those who believe. Command and teach these things.

  Romans 10:3-4 - For, being ignorant of the righteousness that comes
  from God, and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to
  God's righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness
  to everyone who believes.

  I Peter 3:18-21 - For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous
  for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death
  in the flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and
  proclaimed to the spirits in prison, because they formerly did not
  obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was
  being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought
  safely through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves
  you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for
  a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,

  I Thessalonians 4:14 - For since we believe that Jesus died and rose
  again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have
  fallen asleep.

  Romans 10:12-21 - For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek;
  the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on
  him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. But
  how are they to call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are
  they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they
  to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless
  they are sent? As it is written, How beautiful are the feet of those
  who preach the good news! But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For
  Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? So faith
  comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. But I ask,
  have they not heard? Indeed they have, for Their voice has gone out to
  all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. But I ask, did
  Israel not understand? First Moses says, I will make you jealous of
  those who are not a nation; with a foolish nation I will make you
  angry. Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those who
  did not seek me; I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me.
  But of Israel he says, All day long I have held out my hands to a
  disobedient and contrary people.

25.0.15. Faith in Jesus essential to even those who pursue the law, but the law
is still pursued

  Romans 3:28-31 For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works
  of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles
  also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one. He will justify the
  circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then
  overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold
  the law.

That's not a contradiction.

Jesus helps us to follow the law and where we fall short it's still faith in
Jesus that justifies because Jesus is our advocate and High Priest.

Also, I think there's a difference between the commandments (10 and 2) and
the full Mosaic law (613 laws).

  Exodus 16:28 - Then the Lord (H3068 Yhovah) said (H559 'amar) to Moses
  (H4872 Mosheh), “How (H575 'an) long (H5704 `ad) do you refuse (H3985
  ma'en) to keep (H8104 shamar) My commandments (H4687 mitsvah) and My
  instructions (H8451 towrah)? (NASB)

26. The Old Testament makes a person wise for salvation through faith in Christ
Jesus, and is profitable for training in righteousness:

Old Testament theology is supposed to be profitable for:

• becoming wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus
• doctrine
• reproof
• correction
• training in righteousness

For example, Deuteronomy 28:47-48 shows that when serving God it should be
out of joy in Him. It is correct that we should have joy in God and that out
of that joy we delight in God and that overflows into sharing the love of God
to others. We must come to a place where we see this law as correct. It's an
important one.

We are supposed to serve God out of joy!

  Deuteronomy 28:47-48 - Because you did not serve the LORD your God with
  joyfulness and gladness of heart, because of the abundance of all things,
  therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the LORD will send against you,
  in hunger and thirst, in nakedness, and lacking everything. And he will put
  a yoke of iron on your neck until he has destroyed you. (ESV)

Jesus Christ is the bread from heaven:

  John 21:15-17 - When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon
  Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him,
  Yes, Lord; you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said
  to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him,
  Yes, Lord; you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said
  to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was
  grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? and he said
  to him, Lord, you know everything; you know that I love you. Jesus said to
  him, Feed my sheep.

The original Apostles were instructed to feed Jesus' sheep with the living
bread that is Jesus Christ. Likewise, in living testimony we should teach
others to walk the way of righteousness:

  John 6:33 - For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives
  life to the world.

  II Timothy 3:12-17 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, while evil people and impostors will go on from
  bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. But as for you, continue in
  what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you
  learned it and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred
  writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in
  Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for
  teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,
  that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work. (ESV)

  2 Timothy 3:15-16 - and how from childhood you have been acquainted with
  the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through
  faith in Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable
  for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in
  righteousness, (ESV)

Torah means instruction for righteousness.

27. Jesus allowed himself to be baptised by John for the fulfillment of all
righteousness

  Matthew 3:11-17 - I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is
  coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry.
  He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. His winnowing fork
  is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat
  into the barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. Then
  Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him. John
  would have prevented him, saying, I need to be baptized by you, and do you
  come to me? But Jesus answered him, Let it be so now, for thus it is
  fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he consented. And when
  Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the
  heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a
  dove and coming to rest on him; and behold, a voice from heaven said, This
  is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. (ESV)

28. Jesus fulfilled the law

• Who gave Moses the law and the instructions to build the tabernacle? God
did.
• The blueprints came from God.
• The Law, the Psalms and the Prophets all point to Jesus.
• Moses wrote about Jesus.
• Jesus fulfilled the Law and the prophecies.

We still follow the law but by faith and not by works.

We keep accountability with God, and in truth over following the law - God
knows when we lie, cheat, commit adultery, idolise etc. We follow the law in
truth. Jesus fulfilled the law. Jesus' blood is the atonement for sin. So we
go to Jesus for forgiveness instead of perform the ceremonial law to try to
make atonement for sin.

This looks like an interesting resource about that - Exodus 25-40 The
Tabernacle as a Type of Jesus Christ

28.1. Don't be deceived: Keeping commandments isn't the same thing as placing
oneself under the Mosaic law for justification. We're commanded to obey Jesus,
and that matters

  I Corinthians 7:17-19 - Only let each person lead the life that the Lord
  has assigned to him, and to which God has called him. This is my rule in
  all the churches. Was anyone at the time of his call already circumcised?
  Let him not seek to remove the marks of circumcision. Was anyone at the
  time of his call uncircumcised? Let him not seek circumcision. For neither
  circumcision counts for anything nor uncircumcision, but keeping the
  commandments of God.

28.2. Justified by faith alone - faith is obedient

  Martin Luther - “We are saved by faith alone, but the faith that saves is
  never alone.”

  Luke 16:16 - The Law and the Prophets were until John; since then the good
  news of the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone forces his way into
  it. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:19-29 - Why then the law? It was added because of
  transgressions, until the offspring should come to whom the promise had
  been made, and it was put in place through angels by an intermediary. Now
  an intermediary implies more than one, but God is one. Is the law then
  contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not! For if a law had been given
  that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law. But
  the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith
  in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Now before faith came,
  we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would
  be revealed. So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order
  that we might be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no
  longer under a guardian, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God,
  through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on
  Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free,
  there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And
  if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to
  promise. (ESV)

The Scripture imprisoned everything under sin. Before faith came, we were
held captive under the law.

Now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian, for in Christ
Jesus, we are all sons of God through faith.

For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ - heirs
according to promise:

  Galatians 3:26-29 - for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through
  faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
  There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is
  neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you
  are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise.
  (ESV)

All who a) believe without being circumcised (i.e. they are not under the
law), and also b) those who are circumcised (adhere to the law) but walk in
the footsteps of faith that Abraham had before he was circumcised (still walk
in faith as Abraham did before circumcision) are heirs according to promise:

  Romans 4:11-12 - He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the
  righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The
  purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being
  circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to
  make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but
  who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had
  before he was circumcised. (ESV)

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of faith:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

Obedience here led to faith:

  Exodus 14:31 - Israel saw the great power that the LORD used against the
  Egyptians, so the people feared the LORD, and they believed in the LORD and
  in his servant Moses. (ESV)

Faith eclipses the law:

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

I think someone who trusts in God to save them through saving faith in Jesus
Christ, is saved, or is in the process of being saved. But keep in mind that
someone who truly trusts Jesus will do as Jesus has commanded.

Abraham's faith was both obedient and believing.

God is the judge of what saving faith looks like, and how long the process of
'being saved' takes, and God is the justifier.

We must receive Jesus' words, walk in them and come to know in truth (we must
truly know) that Jesus came from God.

  John 17:8 - For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have
  received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and they
  have believed that you sent me.

  John 1:11-13 - He came to His own, and those who were His own did not
  receive Him. But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to
  become children of God, even to those who believe (G4100 pisteuo) in His
  name, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the
  will of man, but of God.

Therefore, we should obey Jesus and arrive at the truth. Obedience is a part
of faith. Like Abraham obeying God, or like Israel crossing through the Red
Sea, it's obedience which leads to sure belief. And the obedience doesn't
end.

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed Him, “If
  you continue in My word, then you are truly disciples of Mine; and you will
  know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” (NASB)

Through faithful endurance we endeavor to be justified in Christ.

  Galatians 2:17 – But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too
  were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not!
  (ESV)

The Revelation of John shows that Jesus looks at people's works.

Faith without working through love doesn't count for anything.

Faith which produces love:

  Galatians 5:6 - For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision
  counts for anything, but only faith working through love. (ESV)

Faith that from a good conscience with God produces Christ's love:

  I Corinthians 16:13-14 - Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like
  men, be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:5 - The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart
  and a good conscience and a sincere faith. (ESV)

The only point I want to make from this text here is that faith is supposed
to continue in love and holiness. I believe this continuation of obedience
with faith, love and holiness (and self-control, which along with love is one
of the fruit of the Spirit) applies to all Christians. John Piper explains
this well:

  I Timothy 2:13-15 - For Adam was formed first, then Eve; and Adam was not
  deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor. Yet she
  will be saved through childbearing — if they continue in faith and love and
  holiness, with self-control. (ESV)

Quote from John Piper
and then all of this: faith, love, holiness, self-control is simply ordinary
pathway that all men and women must take in order to come to eternal life and
to salvation. We must believe, we must love, that love must yield holiness,
and part of the fruit of the Holy Spirit in that holiness is self-control.

28.3. Friends of God obey God

  James 2:22-24 - You see that faith was working with (4903. sunergeó) his
  works, and as a result of the works, faith was perfected; and the Scripture
  was fulfilled which says, “And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to
  him as righteousness,” and he was called the friend of God. You see that a
  man is justified by works and not by faith alone.

  John 15:14 - You are my friends if you do what I command you.

  James 4:4 - You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the
  world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the
  world makes himself an enemy of God.

28.3.1. The love of the truth involves sanctification

  II Thessalonians 2:10-13 - and with all the deception of wickedness for
  those who perish, because they did not receive the love of the truth so as
  to be saved. For this reason God will send upon them a deluding influence
  so that they will believe what is false, in order that they all may be
  judged who did not believe the truth, but took pleasure in wickedness. But
  we should always give thanks to God for you, brethren beloved by the Lord,
  because God has chosen you from the beginning for salvation through
  sanctification by the Spirit and faith in the truth.

28.4. Dead faith is disobedient

I want to be clear, having faith in Jesus Christ is not dead faith. Dead
faith is precisely not having faith in Jesus Christ.

Adam's disobedience caused our disobedience:

  Romans 5:19 - For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made
  sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.

28.4.1. We were disobedient

  Romans 11:30 - Just as you were at one time disobedient to God but now have
  received mercy because of their disobedience,

  Romans 11:32 - For God has consigned all to disobedience (543. apeitheia -
  willful unbelief, obstinancy, disobedience), that he may have mercy on all.

  Ephesians 2:2 - in which you once walked, following the course of this
  world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now
  at work in the sons of disobedience—

28.4.2. We are brought to obedience

An obedient heart is required for it to not be 'dead faith'.

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority.

  II Corinthians 10:6 - being ready to punish every disobedience, when your
  obedience is complete.

28.4.3. The disobedient will receive the wrath of God

  Ephesians 5:6 - Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of
  these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in the Son has eternal life;
  whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall not see life, but the
  wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

  Hebrews 2:2 - For since the message declared by angels proved to be
  reliable and every transgression or disobedience received a just
  retribution,

  Hebrews 4:6 - Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those
  who formerly received the good news failed to enter because of
  disobedience,

  Hebrews 4:11 - Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one
  may fall by the same sort of disobedience.

28.5. Saving faith

I really think that God is faithful and He's above all things, and we just
need to receive the saving gospel message and when trial, tribulation, or the
testing of your faith happens, we have to hold fast to the truth and
persevere with it.

Repent from sin, receive by faith with meekness the implanted word, and be a
doer of the word, persevering with it:

  James 1:21-24 - Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness
  and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your
  souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving
  yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is
  like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. For he looks
  at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. (ESV)

We were saved in this hope, but we still continue to hope: s

  Romans 8:23-25 - And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the
  firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption
  as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now
  hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we
  hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. (ESV)

28.5.1. believing on Jesus

I think entry level saving faith is having faith on Jesus' name - but the
salvation is a gift which needs to be received through faith. I no longer
call it 'baseline' saving faith, but rather 'entry level'.

  John 20:31 - but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is
  the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his
  name. (ESV)

He is the resurrection and the life.

Whoever believes in Him, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who
lives and believes in Him shall never die.

I believe that a person needs to have an obedient heart - wanting to do the
will of Father God - wanting to obey Jesus Christ.

Keeping Jesus Christ's commandments is a requirement to inherit eternal life,
not an extra:

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

Faith may come from simply observing Jesus work, reading Jesus' words and
believing, or through work from disciples of Jesus, etc.

  John 11:14-15 Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died, and for your
  sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go
  to him.

It's for their sake, so that they would be able to believe (have faith):

  John 11:15 - and I am (G5463 chairo) glad (G5463 chairo) for your sakes
  (G1223 dia) that I was not there (G1563 ekei), so (G2443 hina) that you may
  believe (G4100 pisteuo); but let us go (G71 ago) to him.”

|  :  4100  pisteuo  pist-yoo'-o
| 
|   from 4102; to have faith (in, upon, or with respect to, a person or
|   thing), i.e. credit; by implication, to entrust (especially one's
|   spiritual well-being to Christ):--believe(-r), commit (to trust), put
|   in trust with.
|   see GREEK for 4102

  John 11:23-27 - Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha
  said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last
  day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever
  believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who lives
  and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him,
  Yes, Lord; I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming
  into the world.

The person has to really believe - to have actual faith - the faith that
continues to produce obedient work, the faith that continues to produce love.

Even Martha's faith here was put on display when she confessed, "Yes, Lord; I
believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the
world." It shows she has faith.

28.5.2. by the grace of God alone - no works

This guy was expecting to receive - he had solid faith:

  Acts 3:5-7 - And he began to give them his attention, expecting to receive
  something from them. But Peter said, “I do not possess silver and gold, but
  what I do have I give to you: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene–
  walk!” And seizing him by the right hand, he raised him up; and immediately
  his feet and his ankles were strengthened.

  Acts 3:16 - And on the basis of faith in His name, it is the name of Jesus
  which has strengthened this man whom you see and know; and the faith which
  comes through Him has given him this perfect health in the presence of you
  all.

I think it's possible but you have to expect to receive it:

  John 11:25-26 - Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life.
  Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who
  lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?

AMEN!!

Like Abraham we trust God who is reliable. We can be unreliable but we trust
God who is reliable and faithful.

I still think that trust elicits obedience. Since God commanded us to place
our faith in Him, then to have faith itself is to have begun to obey God.

Abraham was unwavering in trusting God who is absolutely reliable.

The reason Abraham's faith was counted as righteousness is because no
distrust made him waver (Abraham faithfully trusted God regarding the
promise). Abraham believed God was able to do what He had promised. So a good
indicator that Abraham was totally trusting of God is that Abraham walked in
the promise of God. I think the most important takeaway from this is that
faith is trusting, even if our trusting faith may waver, our faith
intrinsically is trusting of God, and trust naturally elicits both belief and
obedience:

  Romans 4:20-22 - No distrust (apistia) made him waver concerning the
  promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,
  fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why
  his faith was counted to him as righteousness. (ESV)

|  apistia: unbelief
|  Original Word: ἀπιστία, ας, ἡ
|  Part of Speech: Noun, Feminine
|  Transliteration: apistia
|  Phonetic Spelling: (ap-is-tee'-ah)
|  Definition: unbelief
|  Usage: unbelief, unfaithfulness, distrust.

However, I still think that inheriting the Kingdom and inheriting eternal
life involves being obedient to Jesus which leads to true knowledge.
Obedience to God should naturally flow from faithful trusting in God.

There is still obedience required but to have placed one's trust in God that
God will fulfill His promises is sufficient obedience. God works for those
who wait on Him:

  Isaiah 64:4 - From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye
  has seen a God besides you, who acts for those who wait for him. (ESV)

At the end of the day it's what God has done for us and what God does for us,
not what we do for Him:

  I John 4:10 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved
  us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. (ESV)

Praise
youtube.com: Way Maker - Paul McClure | Moment

Love is passed forward. Those who are truly obedient, keep His commandments,
but that also means accepting that God loved us first. God is pre-eminent:

  I John 5:3 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

• youtube.com: Theology is for Everyone J I Packer @time: 45 min 47 sec We
live our lives in responsive love to God and responsive love to our
neighbor with whom we seek to share our faith just as we seek to serve
our neighbor in every other way and this means that the life that God has
given us is being passed on and passed back, back finally to God Himself
in praise and thanksgiving and the joy of fellowship with Him.

Obedience is intrinsic to faith, but the obedient also recognise that love
comes from God and God has loved us first through sending His Son to be the
propitiation for our sins. Obedience leads to knowledge of Jesus:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed Him, “If
  you continue in My word, then you are truly disciples of Mine; and you will
  know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” (NASB)

  John 17:8 - For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have
  received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and they
  have believed that you sent me.

28.5.3. fear of God as a friend of God

  Psalms 25:14 - The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him, and he
  makes known to them his covenant. (ESV)

  James 4:4-5 - You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with
  the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of
  the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you suppose it is to no
  purpose that the Scripture says, He yearns jealously over the spirit that
  he has made to dwell in us? (ESV)

  Matthew 5:3 - Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of
  heaven.

  Acts 10:34-35: So Peter opened his mouth and said: Truly I understand that
  God shows no partiality, but in every nation anyone who fears him and does
  what is right is acceptable to him.

  Galatians 2:6 - And from those who seemed to be influential (what they were
  makes no difference to me; God shows no partiality)—those, I say, who
  seemed influential added nothing to me. (ESV)

Fear of God is not only about having the heart to repent from sin and "beat
hand on chest and ask God for mercy", but it is also having a changed heart,
endeavoring to please Christ with our actions:

  II Corinthians 5:6-11 - So we are always of good courage. We know that
  while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord, for we walk by
  faith, not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be
  away from the body and at home with the Lord. So whether we are at home or
  away, we make it our aim to please him. For we must all appear before the
  judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what
  he has done in the body, whether good or evil. Therefore, knowing the fear
  of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I
  hope it is known also to your conscience. (ESV)

  Isaiah 66:2 - All these things my hand has made, and so all these things
  came to be, declares the LORD. But this is the one to whom I will look: he
  who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. (ESV)

The repentant sinner next to Jesus on the cross knew he deserved his
punishment, and he even demonstrated that he had a heart that obeys the
gospel (whereas the other person appears to have been disobedient to the
gospel to death):

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority.

The unrepentant sinner wanted Jesus to save his present life:

  Luke 23:39 - One of the criminals who were hanged there was hurling abuse
  at Him, saying, “Are You not the Christ? Save Yourself and us!”

The repentant sinner feared God and put his hope on Jesus Christ, not to save
him from the cross, but to save his soul:

  Luke 23:40-43 - But the other answered, and rebuking him said, “Do you not
  even fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And
  we indeed are suffering justly, for we are receiving what we deserve for
  our deeds; but this man has done nothing wrong.” And he was saying, “Jesus,
  remember me when You come in Your kingdom!” And He said to him, “Truly I
  say to you, today you shall be with Me in Paradise.”

A key thing here is that the repentant sinner didn't value his present life,
and didn't care to ask Jesus to save his present life on earth. The repentant
sinner had come to the end of caring about his present life, and put his
trust in Jesus. This is what we should do, and it looks like sacrificing the
present life to follow Jesus. And I believe that to someone who isn't
literally at the end of their earthly life that looks like repentance from
sin and an obedient heart, serving Jesus. You can see that he had a changed
heart, and was remorseful. He knew he was being justly punished. And he had
the heart to want to follow Jesus.

  Luke 9:23-24 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him
  deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would
  save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will
  save it. (ESV)

• Fear of God
• Fear-of-God = e.g. The poor in spirit recognise their need of God's
mercy and tremble at His Word
• Luke 18:13 - But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even
lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be
merciful to me, a sinner! (ESV)
• And a sinner (with that attitude, I believe) who trusts God to
justify him, that person's faith is counted as righteousness:
• Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts
him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as
righteousness,
• Do what is right and acceptable to him
• Romans 13:10 - Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is
the fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 32:40 - I will make with them an everlasting covenant, that I will
  not turn away from doing good to them. And I will put the fear of me in
  their hearts, that they may not turn from me. (ESV)

28.5.4. a life of faith

The followers of Paul the Apostle live by (walk by) faith; those are the
righteous ones. It's a lifestyle:

  Galatians 3:11 - Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by
  the law, for The righteous shall live by faith. (ESV)

I think there's probably some nuance between between being spared from death,
from condemnation and receiving eternal life.

  Romans 6:22 - But now that you have been set free from sin and have become
  slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end,
  eternal life.

While Jesus can save someone from dying, I think eternal life the way it's
presented is more than that - it's becoming a part of the Truth - it's union
with Christ and with God.

I think it's perpetually having faith in Jesus, having arrived at true
knowledge of Him, and being in relationship with Him and with God.

  Matthew 19:29 - And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or
  father or mother or children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a
  hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. (ESV)

28.5.5. Saving faith / Works of faith / Faith with works

Jesus said that patient endurance is a work.

  Revelation of John 2:2 - I know your works, your toil and your patient
  endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested
  those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false.

  Revelation of John 2:19 - I know your works, your love and faith and
  service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first.

Likewise, love for Jesus by obeying His commandments, love for Jesus by
loving one's neighbour also qualifies as a work, love for Jesus by .

  Mark 11:23 - Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, Be taken
  up and thrown into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes
  that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him.

Peter's demonstration of obedient faith. Doubt inhibits faith:

  Matthew 14:28-31 - And Peter answered him, Lord, if it is you, command me
  to come to you on the water. He said, Come. So Peter got out of the boat
  and walked on the water and came to Jesus. But when he saw the wind, he was
  afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out, Lord, save me. Jesus
  immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying to him, O you
  of little faith, why did you doubt? (ESV)

Obeying Jesus' commandments - believing Jesus and acting on Jesus'
commandments is faith.

Keeping Jesus' deeds is saving faith:

  Revelation of John 2:25-29 - Nevertheless what you have, hold fast until I
  come. He who overcomes, and he who keeps My deeds until the end, to him I
  will give authority over the nations; and he shall rule them with a rod of
  iron, as the vessels of the potter are broken to pieces, as I also have
  received authority from My Father; and I will give him the morning star. He
  who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’

James isn't talking about work of the law, he's talking about the works of
faith.

God desires us to have mercy.

There are a lot of 'do nots' in the law but the most important thing is the 2
'do' commandments. The 'do nots' are to stop people from doing bad things,
but the 2 Greatest commandments command us to love God and our neighbour.

  Matthew 22:37-40 - And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God
  with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is
  the great and first commandment. And a second is like it: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the Law and
  the Prophets.

  James 2:13-17 - For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no
  mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. What good is it, my brothers, if
  someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him?
  If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one
  of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them
  the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself,
  if it does not have works, is dead.

MERCY.

  Matthew 12:3-8 - He said to them, Have you not read what David did when he
  was hungry, and those who were with him: how he entered the house of God
  and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat
  nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests? Or have you not
  read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the
  Sabbath and are guiltless? I tell you, something greater than the temple is
  here. And if you had known what this means, I desire mercy, and not
  sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless. For the Son of Man
  is lord of the Sabbath.

MERCY.

Faith without work is dead; it's useless.

That person is completely at the mercy of Jesus and of the saints, I think.

  1 Corinthians 3:15 - If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss,
  though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire. (ESV)

But having true faith in Jesus is work.

Sometimes a person's work is all burned up but they are still saved.

  John 6:28-29 - Then they said to him, What must we do, to be doing the
  works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you
  believe (G4100 pisteuo) in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

 1. Salvation is through grace alone, but through sanctification by the
Spirit and faith in the truth, which is cooperative

Jesus' sacrifice outside Jerusalem is so that we might be sanctified
through His own blood and come into Jerusalem. I still think that there's
nothing wrong with bearing the reproach Jesus endured - in fact it's
encouraged. I think we bear His reproach in order to be sanctified and
then call Jerusalem our home:

  Hebrews 13:12-14 - So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to
  sanctify the people through his own blood. Therefore let us go to him
  outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured. For here we have no
  lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. (ESV)

  II Thessalonians 2:10-13 - and with all the deception of wickedness for
  those who perish, because they did not receive the love of the truth so
  as to be saved. For this reason God will send upon them a deluding
  influence so that they will believe what is false, in order that they
  all may be judged who did not believe the truth, but took pleasure in
  wickedness. But we should always give thanks to God for you, brethren
  beloved by the Lord, because God has chosen you from the beginning for
  salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and faith in the truth.

The Spirit sanctifies as we have faith in the truth. The faith in the
truth is the cooperative part, where we obey the truth.

28.6. Working faith / faith with substance

Faith is a relationship with God. God has promised inheriting the Kingdom,
inheriting eternal life to those who obey Him. But God is sovereign to save.

I made these equations to describe my understanding that faith is actually
closely related to belief, obedience, hope and love, and they actually are
not completely separate things.

We need well-grounded (faith in Jesus), well-placed (on the right stuff)
agape love for God, those in Christ, our spouse, and even called to agape
love all people with agape love, but not agape-ing the world or the world's
lusts:

  I Corinthians 13:2 - And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all
  mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove
  mountains, but have not love (26. agapé - treasuring, valuing love), I am
  nothing. (ESV)

|  Faith-in-God = Hope-from/in-God * Work/Love/Walking-By-Faith
| 
|  Hope-from/in-God = Belief(believing God) * Truth(God's word is Truth, Jesus is the Truth)
| 
|  Work/Love/Walking-By-Faith = Obedience * Faithfulness * Fear-of-God * Response-of-love-to-Jesus * Patient-Endurance(time)
| 
|  Obedience = Submitting to the Righteousness of God * Turning from sin, loving, showing mercy, etc.
| 
|  Fear-of-God = e.g. The poor in spirit recognise their need of God's mercy and tremble at His Word: "beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner!"
|                 Fear of God is not only about having the heart to repent from sin and "beat hand on chest and ask God for mercy", but it is also having a changed heart,
|                 endeavoring to please Christ with our actions.
|                 godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret
|  
|   Response-of-love-to-Jesus = e.g. praise, thankfulness, obeying His commandments
|  
|   Love is proportional-to the baggage which has been forgiven
|   Love ∝ forgiven-baggage
|  
|   Obedience ∝ Love
|  
|   F = H * L
|   Faith = Hope * Love
|  
|   Faith-in-God when tested by God is found to be true Faith in God.
|   Faith-in-God must submit to the Righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ,
|   Jesus Christ having paid the price of sin, enabling a relationship with God.

But salvation is a gift and God is sovereign to save. That's why it's grace.
Saved by grace through faith. Yet actual obedience to the gospel of Jesus is
merely Jesus working through us. When a person truly believes then they
naturally obey.

I think a person needs some faith to be saved, and faith naturally produces
work and any work done out of obedience to Jesus is Jesus' work.

Salvation has to be accepted.

I believe the explanation for the 'apparent paradox' of salvation by faith
alone or salvation by 'faith*works' is that while truly obeying God, it's
actually God working through you, just as the Israelites obeyed God and went
through the Red Sea, or when Noah obeyed God and built the Ark.

We are saved by faith alone but that is not a reason to discourage people
from obeying the gospel by the false (in my opinion) doctrine that 'faith and
obedience' are mutually exclusive:

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

  II Thessalonians 1:8 - in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who
  do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus.
  (ESV)

  James 1:21-22 - Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness
  and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your
  souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving
  yourselves. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:11 - Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by
  the law, for The righteous shall live by faith. (ESV)

A person must be at least willing to do His will - obedience is at the
essence of faith:

  John 7:17 - If anyone is willing to do His will, he will know of the
  teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from Myself.

There is still obedience required but to have placed one's trust in God that
God will fulfill His promises is sufficient obedience. God works for those
who wait on Him:Obedience is intrinsic to faith, but the obedient also
recognise that love comes from God and God has loved us first through sending
His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Obedience leads to knowledge of
Jesus:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed Him, “If
  you continue in My word, then you are truly disciples of Mine; and you will
  know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” (NASB)

  John 17:8 - For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have
  received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and they
  have believed that you sent me.

  I Timothy 2:3-6 - This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God our
  Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of
  the truth. For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and
  men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is
  the testimony given at the proper time.

Everyone believing that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God, and
everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of him.

• 1 John 5:1 Interlinear: Every one who is believing that Jesus is the
Christ, of God he hath been begotten, and every one who is loving Him who
did beget, doth love also him who is begotten of Him:

  I John 5:1 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. (ESV)

Therefore, we should receive Jesus' words and obey Jesus and arrive at the
truth. Obedience is an essential part of faith. Like Abraham obeying God, or
like Israel crossing through the Red Sea, it's obedience which leads to sure
belief, and obedience that leads a person into sure knowledge of the truth,
and obedience which cooperates with sanctification.

  Exodus 14:14-16 - The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be
  silent. The Lord said to Moses, Why do you cry to me? Tell the people of
  Israel to go forward. Lift up your staff, and stretch out your hand over
  the sea and divide it, that the people of Israel may go through the sea on
  dry ground.

Mercy is available:

  Luke 18:13 - But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift
  up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me,
  a sinner! (ESV)

Those who fear God inherit the Kingdom.

  Matthew 5:3 - Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of
  heaven.

Condition: Those who are poor in spirit
Promise: They will inherit the kingdom of Heaven

  Isaiah 66:2 - All these things my hand has made, and so all these things
  came to be, declares the LORD. But this is the one to whom I will look: he
  who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. (ESV)

Fear of God is not only about having the heart to repent from sin and "beat
hand on chest and ask God for mercy", but it is also having a changed heart,
endeavoring to please Christ with our actions:

  II Corinthians 5:6-11 - So we are always of good courage. We know that
  while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord, for we walk by
  faith, not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be
  away from the body and at home with the Lord. So whether we are at home or
  away, we make it our aim to please him. For we must all appear before the
  judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what
  he has done in the body, whether good or evil. Therefore, knowing the fear
  of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I
  hope it is known also to your conscience. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 7:10 - For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to
  salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death. (ESV)

We need faithfulness and not faithlessness and disbelief to inherit the
promises:

  Hebrews 12:16-17 - that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who
  sold his birthright for a single meal. For you know that afterward, when he
  desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to
  repent, though he sought it with tears.

  Revelation of John 2:2 - I know your works, your toil and your patient
  endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested
  those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false.

Here it says that unless the church does the work which it had started out
doing, their lampstand will be removed from its place.

  Revelation of John 2:5 - Remember therefore from where you have fallen;
  repent, and do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and
  remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent.

Because God loved us first:

• The Apostle Paul endeavours to know Jesus ('makes it his own'. See Php
| 9-13 below) because Jesus made Paul His own
• To be found in Jesus is what Paul describes as the righteousness
from God that depends on faith
• We know Jesus by believing in Him and obeying His commandments, and
when we love and forgive we know God loved us and forgave us first
• We should love because He loved us first
• Romans 5:7-8 - For one will scarcely die for a righteous
person—though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die—
but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners,
Christ died for us. (ESV)
• We must forgive as we have been forgiven

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

If there is such a thing as justifying work then it is better described as
obedient faith (Hebrews 11:31, James 2:25) and obedient faith is "being found
in Christ".

If a response of love for Jesus justifying 'work' then it would be based on
being loved and forgiven first by God.

  Luke 7:47-50 - Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are
  forgiven-for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.
  And he said to her, Your sins are forgiven. Then those who were at table
  with him began to say among themselves, Who is this, who even forgives
  sins? And he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you; go in peace.
  (ESV)

  James 2:22-25 - You see that faith was active along with his works, and
  faith was completed by his works; and the Scripture was fulfilled that
  says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness-and
  he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works
  and not by faith alone. And in the same way was not also Rahab the
  prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent
  them out by another way?

ONLY working faith counts for anything. Even Paul agrees. However, it says
'in Christ Jesus', and I believe that those who trust in Jesus without work
still abide, but by the skin of their teeth.

  Galatians 5:6 - For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision
  counts for anything, but only faith working through love. (ESV)

Loving God is obeying His commandments.

  I John 5:2-3 - By this we know that we love the children of God, when we
  love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we
  keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.

29. We must love God

• youtube.com: Love Jesus More Than You Love Anything

  Matthew 22:37-39 - And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God
  with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is
  the great and first commandment. And a second is like it: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. (ESV)

In response to forgiveness, we must love:

  Luke 7:47 - Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are
  forgiven—for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.
  (ESV)

He loved us first, and that is why and how we love (knowing we've already
received mercy). Christ's love is not simply charity but a) it's
passing-forward Christ's love, and b) it's to relieve other's burdens (mercy,
not sacrifice):

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

  Acts 2:45 - And they were selling their possessions and belongings and
  distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need. (ESV)

Jesus laid down His life. Maybe this says something about how we should also
lay down our lives for each other:

  John 10:17 - For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my
  life that I may take it up again. (ESV)

  John 15:13 - Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his
  life for his friends. (ESV)

29.1. We must agape love God, we must agape people and we must not agape the
things of the world

God also wants us to have joy in Him.

youtube.com: Overcoming Spiritual Dryness @time: 21 min 24 sec

A lot of preaching of the law (and I think that's a good thing) deals with
the law just at a 'do' level - a deed level - don't commit adultery, don't
lie, don't steal, and doesn't probe the depths of commandment number 10 which
is the root of all the others.

Thou shalt not desire things in ways you shouldn't - covet.

Desire is the root problem in the law and so when we preach not enough people
probe people's consciences and hearts as to what do you delight in?

..

To know that my heart has to change my whole structure of motivation has to
change my whole priority of treasuring things in the world has to change I'm
damned I'm just I there's nothing I can do I feel totally devastated by this
indictment. That's a third reason why I think we should not just say "pursue"
God.

…

Because you know what people will do with the word pursue? They'll just fill
in all the verbs they feel comfortable with: "I'll read about him." "I'll
talk about him." "I'll do some things for him." "[But] don't you touch my
heart because I'm in love with money, and I'm in love with the praise of
man."

So don't connect "pursue god" with "pursue joy in God".

We are after God in a certain way, not to indict him, not to ignore him, not
merely to say right things about him. We're after God to enjoy him. and if we
don't, we don't honor him.

It's a huge, huge issue. My goal is God and happiness in all that he is for
me.

Deuteronomy 28:47-48 shows that when serving God it should be out of joy in
Him. It is correct that we should have joy in God and that out of that joy we
delight in God and that overflows into sharing the love of God to others. We
must come to a place where we see this law as correct. It's an important one.

We are supposed to serve God out of joy!

  Deuteronomy 28:47-48 - Because you did not serve the LORD your God with
  joyfulness and gladness of heart, because of the abundance of all things,
  therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the LORD will send against you,
  in hunger and thirst, in nakedness, and lacking everything. And he will put
  a yoke of iron on your neck until he has destroyed you. (ESV)

So how do we get to this place of serving God in joy? Through the power of
the atonement, through having faith in Jesus Christ, trusting Him, we can be
set free from sin - we can have our hearts and minds renewed.

Thus so (Houtōs) (in this way) did God love (25. agapaó - value,treasure) the
world, that He gave His Only-Begotten (G3439. monogenēs - unique,only
begotten) Son that (G2443 hina - in order that) everyone who is
trusting/believing in Him may not perish, but may have life everlasting:

biblehub.com 3-16.htm: John 3:16 Interlinear: for God did so love the world,
that His Son – the only begotten – He gave, that every one who is believing
in him may not perish, but may have life age-during.

  John 3:16-17 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God
  did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that
  the world might be saved through him. (ESV)

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.

29.2. We must love Jesus

  Matthew 10:37 - Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy
  of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
  (ESV)

29.3. What's the relationship between loving God and loving Jesus?

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

  John 5:42 - But I know that you do not have the love of God within you.
  (ESV)

When confronted with Jesus, loving Jesus is the test of whether you love God.

29.4. What is the nature of this love?

Required to satisfy the "Christ's love" criteria I believe are:

• Our first agape love has to be Jesus
• We love because God loved us first. We ought to love others because we
have been loved by God
• We forgive out of a loving response to God and to others, knowing we have
already been forgiven of our debt
• It must satisfy Christ's law
• Acceptance comes at the beginning; Jesus gives us the benefit of the
doubt
• Be a servant; consider others more significant than yourself
• Seek to do not harm to your neighbour
• Bear one another's burdens without partiality
• We should endeavour to love not just on occasion, but at all times,
continually, as Jesus did, and give our all

29.4.1. It's affectionate and treasuring

In a way the love of Jesus is like the love of your children:

  Matthew 10:37 - Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy
  of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
  (ESV)

Your children are your treasure; you wouldn't sell them for billions of
dollars. Jesus has to be our treasure.

Jesus has to be our Pearl of Great price:

  Matthew 13:45-46 - Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in
  search of fine pearls, who, on finding one pearl of great value, went and
  sold all that he had and bought it. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Be the Centre - Michael Frye

29.4.2. Heavenly treasure and the Pearl of Great Price

The Pearl of Great Price, Jesus and Jesus' gospel:

  Matthew 13:45-46 - Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in
  search of fine pearls, who, on finding one pearl of great value, went and
  sold all that he had and bought it. (ESV)

The Pearl of Great Price is Jesus and we want to gain Christ, know Christ and
invest our lives for His gospel. In following Jesus, eternal life is still a
free gift because as Paul says here, what we give up is worthless compared to
knowing Christ:

  Philippians 3:7-8 - But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake
  of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing
  worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the
  loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain
  Christ (ESV)

  Matthew 16:25 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever
  loses his life for my sake will find it. (ESV)

  Mark 8:35 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses
  his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it. (ESV)

I'm pretty convinced that what Jesus means by the following is that by giving
up earthly treasure in the pursuit of Jesus, heavenly treasure is acquired.
I'd say it's likely that the heavenly treasure is simply helping those
people. So selling what a person possesses and giving to those in need,
though apart from faith in Jesus isn't a "requirement for eternal life", it
is a fast track to serving Jesus and getting our heart in heaven and leaning
on Jesus, so doing as Jesus said in obedient faith is already starting to
follow Jesus and store up heavenly treasure. Seek heavenly reward, not
earthly reward. Have a heart seeking reward from God and not from man. Have
your heart in heaven, not in earth. We give up our earthly treasure and help
other people with it and this becomes heavenly treasure, and we then go after
Jesus as our Pearl of Great Price:

  Matthew 6:19-21 - Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where
  moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for
  yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and
  where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there
  your heart will be also. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

Also, I still think that people, and acts of kindness towards people can be
heavenly treasure, but they should not be our number 1 treasure. Jesus must
be.

29.4.3. We need to treasure Jesus, and from there we should keep Jesus'
commandments. Jesus must be our number 1

  Job 22:24-26 - if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the
  stones of the torrent bed, then the Almighty will be your gold and your
  precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and
  lift up your face to God. (ESV)

God wants us to love Him, treasure Him (25. agapaó), value Him with all our
heart, and love and value and treasure one another (25. agapaó) as ourselves
youtube.com: What Is It Like to Enjoy God? @time: 35 min 16 sec

Jesus certainly does command us to have emotions for things. For example:

• we should fear God
• we should be thankful
• we should be compassionate
• we should fear the right things
• we should be earnest
• we should hope

29.4.4. The person who has Jesus' commandments and keeps them, loves Jesus

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

29.4.5. If we love Jesus, then we will keep Jesus' commandments

  John 14:15 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. (ESV)

So in order to make it much easier to keep Jesus' commandments, we should
make Jesus our Pearl of Great Price, our #1 love. If we don't make Jesus our
#1 love then it will be much harder to keep Jesus' commandments.

29.5. How do we get to this place of treasuring Jesus?

  Luke 7:47 - Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are
  forgiven—for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.
  (ESV)

29.6. If we don't love Jesus, we wont have Jesus

  Matthew 10:37 - Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy
  of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
  (ESV)

  I Corinthians 16:22 - If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be
  accursed. Our Lord, come! (ESV)

30. Kingdom of Servants

• Jesus Christ is God's servant
• We are Jesus' servants

  Psalms 34:22 - The LORD redeems the life of his servants; none of those who
  take refuge in him will be condemned. (ESV)

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

  II Timothy 2:24-26 - And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but
  kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his
  opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to
  a knowledge of the truth, and they may escape from the snare of the devil,
  after being captured by him to do his will.

Song
youtube.com: I'm Your Servant

Jesus is God's servant:

  Acts 3:13 - The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the
  God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered over
  and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release him.

  Acts 4:24-30 - And when they heard it, they lifted their voices together to
  God and said, Sovereign Lord, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea
  and everything in them, who through the mouth of our father David, your
  servant, said by the Holy Spirit, Why did the Gentiles rage, and the
  peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers
  were gathered together, against the Lord and against his Anointed— for
  truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant
  Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the
  Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your plan
  had predestined to take place. And now, Lord, look upon their threats and
  grant to your servants to continue to speak your word with all boldness,
  while you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and wonders are
  performed through the name of your holy servant Jesus.

  Romans 15:8 - For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the
  circumcised to show God's truthfulness, in order to confirm the promises
  given to the patriarchs,

Jesus, as God's servant, came to serve others, and to save:

  Mark 10:45 - For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve,
  and to give his life as a ransom for many.

Because God loves people, and wants them to be saved:

  John 3:16 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.

God loves and sees as a son those who love (by obedience) Jesus and believe
that He came from God:

  John 16:26-27 - In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to
  you that I will ask the Father on your behalf; for the Father himself loves
  you, because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God.

We are Jesus' servants:

  John 18:36 - Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom
  were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not
  be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world.

  Philippians 1:1 - Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, To all the
  saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:

  Colossians 4:12 - Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus,
  greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers, that you may
  stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God.

For Jesus' sake we serve others:

  II Corinthians 4:5 - For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus
  Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake.

A good servant of Jesus is trained in the words of the faith and of the good
doctrine.

  I Timothy 4:6 - If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a
  good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of the faith and
  of the good doctrine that you have followed.

God saved us through Jesus:

  Titus 1:1-3 - Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for
  the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth,
  which accords with godliness, in hope of eternal life, which God, who never
  lies, promised before the ages began and at the proper time manifested in
  his word through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the
  command of God our Savior;

Servants of Jesus Christ are servants of God. Servants of God are servants of
Jesus Christ:

  James 1:1 - James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the
  twelve tribes in the Dispersion: Greetings.

  I Corinthians 4:1 - This is how one should regard us, as servants of Christ
  and stewards of the mysteries of God.

The apostles of Jesus are servants:

  II Peter 1:1 - Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To
  those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the
  righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:

  Romans 1:1 - Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set
  apart for the gospel of God,

Jude is Jesus' servant:

  Jude 1:1 - Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, To those
  who are called, beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ:

The Revelation of John is for God's servants:

  Revelation of John 1:1 - The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him
  to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it
  known by sending his angel to his servant John,

If anyone's will is to be a servant of God, they will receive revelation
which confirms the scriptures:

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority.

God's angels are servants:

  Revelation of John 19:10 - Then I fell down at his feet to worship him, but
  he said to me, You must not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and
  your brothers who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Worship God. For the
  testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.

The world cannot hate people who are disobedient to God:

  John 7:5-7 - For not even his brothers believed in him. Jesus said to them,
  My time has not yet come, but your time is always here. The world cannot
  hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it that its works are
  evil.

But the servant of Christ is to be a light to the world:

The world (the remaining people, who have not repented) may know that Father
God has sent Jesus and loved Jesus' disciples:

  John 17:23 - I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one,
  so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you
  loved me.

  Ephesians 2:2 - in which you once walked, following the course of this
  world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now
  at work in the sons of disobedience—

Servants of Jesus who are servants of God encounter resistance from the world
as they fall out of love with the world:

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

  II Timothy 4:10 - For Demas, in love with this present world, has deserted
  me and gone to Thessalonica. Crescens has gone to Galatia, Titus to
  Dalmatia. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:38 - but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks
  back, my soul has no pleasure in him. (ESV)

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:38 - but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks
  back, my soul has no pleasure in him. (ESV)

  John 12:25 - Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in
  this world will keep it for eternal life. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:30-32 - But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today
  is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe
  you, O you of little faith? Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall
  we eat? or What shall we drink? or What shall we wear? For the Gentiles
  seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need
  them all.

  John 15:18-19 - If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it
  hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own;
  but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world,
  therefore the world hates you.

  John 15:23 - Whoever hates me hates my Father also.

  II Corinthians 11:23 - Are they servants of Christ? I am a better one—I am
  talking like a madman—with far greater labors, far more imprisonments, with
  countless beatings, and often near death.

Pleasing man is loving the world:

  Galatians 1:10 - For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am
  I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not
  be a servant of Christ.

  Ephesians 6:6 - not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as
  servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,

As servants of Jesus, we should encourage other servants of Jesus to
maturity:

  Colossians 4:12 - Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus,
  greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers, that you may
  stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God.

  Colossians 1:7 - just as you learned it from Epaphras our beloved fellow
  servant. He is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf

30.1. Being washed and washing one another

We abide in Jesus when He washes us. When the Holy Spirit washes us, the Holy
Spirit helps us to put sin to death:

  John 13:8 - Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered
  him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. (ESV)

Peter believed/received/obeyed/trusted like a child of God (he cooperated) to
let Jesus wash him but it was Jesus doing the work:

  John 13:9 - Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only but also my
  hands and my head! (ESV)

We call on Jesus to wash us:

  Acts 22:16 - And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away
  your sins, calling on his name. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 6:11 - And such were some of you. But you were washed, you
  were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ
  and by the Spirit of our God. (ESV)

Being washed, we ought to wash one another's feet:

  John 13:14 - If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you
  also ought to wash one another's feet. (ESV)

  I Timothy 5:9-10 - Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty
  years of age, having been the wife of one husband, and having a reputation
  for good works: if she has brought up children, has shown hospitality, has
  washed the feet of the saints, has cared for the afflicted, and has devoted
  herself to every good work. (ESV)

Correct others with gentleness:

  II Timothy 2:24-26 - And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but
  kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his
  opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to
  a knowledge of the truth, and they may escape from the snare of the devil,
  after being captured by him to do his will. (ESV)

Representing Jesus, share the gospel in word and deed while also endeavoring
to maintain a good conscience with God and Christlike behaviour:

  I Peter 3:15-16 - but in your hearts regard Christ the Lord as holy, always
  being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for
  the hope that is in you; yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a
  good conscience, so that, when you are slandered, those who revile your
  good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. (ESV)

  Jude 1:21-23 - keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of
  our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. And have mercy on those
  who doubt; save others by snatching them out of the fire; to others show
  mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained by the flesh. (ESV)

  Jude 1:21-23 - Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of
  our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. And of some have compassion,
  making a difference: And others save with fear, pulling them out of the
  fire; hating even the garment spotted by the flesh. (KJV)

30.2. Entering into life / the Kingdom of Heaven

Endurance is important:

  Luke 9:62 - Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand to the plow and
  looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  I John 2:19 - They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they
  had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out, that
  it might become plain that they all are not of us. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:36-39 - For you have need of endurance, so that when you have
  done the will of God you may receive what is promised. For, Yet a little
  while, and the coming one will come and will not delay; but my righteous
  one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in
  him. But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of
  those who have faith and preserve their souls.

Resist the false teaching from impostors who do not want to repent even from
sin and believe, and turn to obey God and do good work:

  II Timothy 3:12-17 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, while evil people and impostors will go on from
  bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. But as for you, continue in
  what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you
  learned it and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred
  writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in
  Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for
  teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,
  that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work. (ESV)

A disciple of Jesus is a servant of Jesus:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

It requires letting go of this world:

  II Timothy 4:10 - For Demas, in love with this present world, has deserted
  me and gone to Thessalonica. Crescens has gone to Galatia, Titus to
  Dalmatia. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:22-23 - When the young man heard this he went away sorrowful,
  for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his disciples, Truly, I say
  to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of
  heaven. (ESV)

Repentance is important:

  Matthew 3:3-9 - For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when
  he said, The voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the
  Lord; make his paths straight. Now John wore a garment of camel's hair and
  a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey.
  Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going
  out to him, and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing
  their sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for
  baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from
  the wrath to come? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not
  presume to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father, for I tell
  you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham.

Jesus will gather His wheat into the barn:

  Matthew 3:10-12 - Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every
  tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into
  the fire. I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming
  after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He
  will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. His winnowing fork is
  in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat
  into the barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.

We should become followers of Jesus.

Justice, mercy and faithfulness are essential for entering the Kingdom of
God.

Repentance and holiness are very important for entering the Kingdom of God
too.

  Matthew 23:23-25 - Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of
  the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done,
  without neglecting the others. You blind guides, straining out a gnat and
  swallowing a camel! Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of
  greed and self-indulgence.

We must turn from sin and lead godly lives with faith in Jesus:

  Matthew 5:14-20 - You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill
  cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but
  on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let
  your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and
  give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Do not think that I have come
  to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to
  fulfill them. For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away,
  not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
  Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and
  teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of
  heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the
  kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that
  of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.

Believing John the Baptist is in accordance with believing Jesus:

  Matthew 21:28-32 - What do you think? A man had two sons. And he went to
  the first and said, Son, go and work in the vineyard today. And he
  answered, I will not, but afterward he changed his mind and went. And he
  went to the other son and said the same. And he answered, I go, sir, but
  did not go. Which of the two did the will of his father? They said, The
  first. Jesus said to them, Truly, I say to you, the tax collectors and the
  prostitutes go into the kingdom of God before you. For John came to you in
  the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax
  collectors and the prostitutes believed him. And even when you saw it, you
  did not afterward change your minds and believe him.

The works of the law are not essential for being justified by God, but faith
in Jesus is, and I believe that following Jesus is in accordance with having
faith in Jesus:

  Galatians 2:16 - yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the
  law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ
  Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the
  law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.

Nevertheless, following the commandments and repenting from sin are of great
value, I think.

But through faith in Christ Jesus we are justified and have peace with God.

  Galatians 3:24-26 - So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in
  order that we might be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we
  are no longer under a guardian, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of
  God, through faith.

30.3. Guideline

  Exodus 20:12 - Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be
  long in the land that the LORD your God is giving you. (ESV)

  Ephesians 6:1-3 - Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is
  right. Honor your father and mother (this is the first commandment with a
  promise), that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the
  land. (ESV)

According to Matthew 19, obeying (actually keeping, complying with) the
commandments (10 commandments, from the heart, and in reality, accountable to
God / the 2 Great commandments) is important for entering into the Kingdom of
Heaven [well], entering into life [well]:

  Matthew 19:16-26 - And behold, a man came up to him, saying, Teacher, what
  good deed must I do to have eternal life? And he said to him, Why do you
  ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would
  enter life, keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus
  said, You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not
  steal, You shall not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother, and,
  You shall love your neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All
  these I have kept. What do I still lack? Jesus said to him, If you would be
  perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have
  treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. When the young man heard this he
  went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his
  disciples, Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person
  enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to
  go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom
  of God. When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished,
  saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With man
  this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.

  II Corinthians 11:31 - The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, he who is
  blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.

Apply them in truth - keep accountability to God, not merely to other people.
God can see.

Also, lay up treasure in Heaven:

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me.

Also, most importantly believe in the atonement which Jesus provides:

  John 6:55-71 - For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink.
  Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him.
  As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever
  feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This is the bread that came
  down from heaven, not as the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this
  bread will live forever. Jesus said these things in the synagogue, as he
  taught at Capernaum. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, This
  is a hard saying; who can listen to it? But Jesus, knowing in himself that
  his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, Do you take offense
  at this? Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he
  was before? It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some of
  you who do not believe. (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were
  who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. )

Both free grace and Lordship are required.

If either the atonement is rejected or Jesus' Lordship is rejected, I think
both groups of people who have rejected atonement or Lordship will be
rejected. And I define Lordship as obeying Jesus Christ, and I define obeying
Jesus Christ as obeying His commandments; not just sharing the gospel but
also His commandment to love others in the same way that He has loved us.
However, if someone hasn't heard the good news yet, but lives righteously
then God will judge that person fairly, I think.

Also, most importantly, become obedient to Jesus:

• Obey Jesus' commandments
• Do not follow the pattern of this world; leave this world behind
• Become a servant of Jesus
• We must forgive others

  Matthew 10:24 - A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above
  his master.

  Matthew 18:33 - And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant,
  as I had mercy on you?

Don't shrink back:

  John 6:63-69 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail.
  The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some
  of you who do not believe. (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those
  were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. ) And he
  said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is
  granted him by the Father. After this many of his disciples turned back and
  no longer walked with him. So Jesus said to the Twelve, Do you want to go
  away as well? Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have
  the words of eternal life, and we have believed, and have come to know,
  that you are the Holy One of God.

Most importantly, don't betray Jesus:

  John 6:70-71 - Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you, the Twelve? And
  yet one of you is a devil. He spoke of Judas the son of Simon Iscariot, for
  he, one of the Twelve, was going to betray him.

Obey God's law (to your knowledge or level of commitment) in faith, not by
works, making yourself accountable to God, not men, and accept the
righteousness of God through Jesus Christ's atoning sacrifice through having
faith in Jesus:

  Romans 14:10-18 - Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do
  you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of
  God; for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to
  me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an
  account of himself to God. Therefore let us not pass judgment on one
  another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or
  hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and am persuaded in the Lord
  Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who
  thinks it unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are
  no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom
  Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil.
  For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking but of
  righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves
  Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. (ESV)

Obey the Royal Law, even owing that to others. We still keep accountability
to God for following this:

  Romans 13:8 - Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one
  who loves another has fulfilled the law. (ESV)

If we are servants of Christ then we are acceptable to God. Serving Christ,
loving our neighbour as ourselves, bearing one another's burdens, trying to
do no harm to our neighbour, we should have a good conscience before God and
men:

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

  Romans 13:10 - Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the
  fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

We need to be justified before God, and that is through faith in Jesus
Christ.

  Luke 16:15-17 - And he said to them, You are those who justify yourselves
  before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is exalted among men is an
  abomination in the sight of God. The Law and the Prophets were until John;
  since then the good news of the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone
  forces his way into it. But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away
  than for one dot of the Law to become void.

Do the will of Father God.

To do the will of Father God, one must do it in truth - God knows and can see
the heart.

  II Corinthians 11:31 - The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, he who is
  blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.

Don't be a ravenous wolf on the inside (repent from sin)! Embrace repentance
and sanctification and abide in the teachings of Christ. Be doers of Christ's
law:

  Matthew 7:14-23 - For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie. narrow, small)
  and the way is hard (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when circumstances "rub us
  the wrong way" that make us feel confined (hemmed in); restricted to a
  "narrow" place) that leads to life, and those who find it are few. Beware
  of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are
  ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes
  gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? So, every healthy tree
  bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree
  cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree
  that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus
  you will recognize them by their fruits. Not everyone who says to me, Lord,
  Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my
  Father who is in heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did
  we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many
  mighty works in your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew
  you; depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.

We must obey God's commandments to love Him and love our neighbour, and have
faith in Jesus Christ. We must submit to the righteousness of God.

  II Peter 1:10-11 - Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make
  your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you
  will never fall. For in this way there will be richly provided for you an
  entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

We must live for the will of God:

  I Peter 4:1-2 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the
  flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the
  flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. (ESV)

30.3.1. We practice personal righteousness AND we have obtained a faith of
equal standing with the Apostles by the righteousness of our God and Savior
Jesus Christ

An entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ
will be richly provided, so long as you trust in Jesus Christ for His
righteousness and are obedient to Him, supplementing your faith with virtue:

The knowledge of Jesus Christ our God and Saviour comes through His words and
obeying them, by His power:

  II Peter 1:1-11 - Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To
  those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the
  righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ: May grace and peace be
  multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.f His
  divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and
  godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and
  excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great
  promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine
  nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of
  sinful desire. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your
  faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with
  self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with
  godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection
  with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep
  you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus
  Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is
  blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins.
  Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and
  election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall. For
  in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the
  eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

30.3.2. Follow the commandments (get out of falsehood; forsake sin) and put
your heart in Heaven

  Matthew 6:19-21 - Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where
  moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for
  yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and
  where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there
  your heart will be also.

God wants us to love Him, treasure Him (25. agapaó), value Him with all our
heart, and love and value and treasure one another (25. agapaó) as ourselves
youtube.com: What Is It Like to Enjoy God? @time: 35 min 16 sec

Yeah, I agree with John Piper, for the most part. Loving God is not actually
first working for God. But it is to truly desire God, and treasure Him (25.
agapaó), and treasure His word, and treasure His commandments, to give Him
due praise, and to honour God, and give Him the glory, to love Him in the
affectionate and treasuring sense is what God wants of us, and Jesus says
that if we love Him then we will keep His commandments. Where John Piper says
'affectionate love comes before obedience', I prefer to say that 'treasuring
God includes a heart of obedience, trust, belief, desiring God, and
affectionate love' and I also think that obedience (being in the will of God)
may produce work for God but doesn't strictly mean work. We want to keep His
commandments so I believe we should treasure God with all our heart. God also
commands us to love one another as ourselves, so we should also love and
value other people with that same treasuring love, but God wants Him to be
our number one treasure, and I think we have to make God our number one love.

Praise
youtube.com: First Love | Worship With Me And Friends {Praise Lubangu & Jake
Hernandez}

As I understand it, I John 5:2-3 isn't saying that God's commandments are
universally unburdensome to all people. It's saying that when we love God
then keeping His commandments is unburdensome. If we're struggling with
keeping the commandments of God and struggling with sin then we should make
Him our number one love heart's desire and treasure and seek Him first with
all our heart and we will be able to find His commandments unburdensome! It's
true.

I feel like I could still say, "Loving God is obedience to God," but I would
rather rephrase it as, "God in His love gifted me to be able to love Him back
and live. I can see in retrospect He had been working in my life and it's
awesome and magnificent and I just want to cherish and obey God now, and God
made the way for me to do that!"

  I John 5:2-3 - By this we know that we love the children of God, when we
  love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we
  keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.

AMEN!!

  Deuteronomy 11:13-14 - And if you will indeed obey my commandments that I
  command you today, to love the Lord your God, and to serve him with all
  your heart and with all your soul, he will give the rain for your land in
  its season, the early rain and the later rain, that you may gather in your
  grain and your wine and your oil.

  I Kings 3:14 - And if you will walk in my ways, keeping my statutes and my
  commandments, as your father David walked, then I will lengthen your days.

AMEN!!

Obey God, put your heart in Heaven, follow Jesus.

  Matthew 19:16-26 - And behold, a man came up to him, saying, Teacher, what
  good deed must I do to have eternal life? And he said to him, Why do you
  ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would
  enter life, keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus
  said, You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not
  steal, You shall not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother, and,
  You shall love your neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All
  these I have kept. What do I still lack? Jesus said to him, If you would be
  perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have
  treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. When the young man heard this he
  went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his
  disciples, Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person
  enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to
  go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom
  of God. When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished,
  saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With man
  this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.

AMEN!!

The guy thought he was obeying the commandments, but he still coveted his
possessions, probably making an idol out of his money. I don't think he was
really following the commandments from the heart. Also he wasn't prepared to
give up his old life to follow Jesus. Following Jesus is obeying his
commandments.

We must try to stop sinning:

  I Kings 15:5 - because David did what was right in the eyes of the LORD and
  did not turn aside from anything that he commanded him all the days of his
  life, except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite. (ESV)

We now live for the will of God:

  I Peter 4:1-2 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the
  flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the
  flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. (ESV)

30.3.3. Then arriving at eternal life - follow Jesus

  Matthew 19:17-21 - And he said to him, Why do you ask me about what is
  good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the
  commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus said, You shall not
  murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You shall not
  bear false witness, Honor your father and mother, and, You shall love your
  neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All these I have kept.
  What do I still lack? Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell
  what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in
  heaven; and come, follow me.

  Romans 2:7-8 - to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and
  honor and immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are
  self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there
  will be wrath and fury.

30.4. We are certainly supposed to keep the commandments - we're supposed to love
God and our neighbour in truth

30.4.1. Keeping the commandments is how to love and Christian's are called to
keep God's commandments

  I Corinthians 7:19 - For neither circumcision counts for anything nor
  uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. (ESV)

  I John 2:1-6 - My little children, I am writing these things to you so that
  you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the
  Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins,
  and not for ours only but also for the sins of the whole world. And by this
  we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments. Whoever
  says I know him but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth
  is not in him, but whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is
  perfected. By this we may be sure that we are in him: whoever says he
  abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked. (ESV)

  Romans 13:9 - The commandments, You shall not commit adultery, You shall
  not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet, and any other
  commandment, are summed up in this word: You shall love your neighbor as
  yourself.

AMEN!!

  Galatians 5:14 - For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself.

AMEN!! Loving your neighbour as yourself involves forgiving your neighbour,
and not bearing a grudge.

I've heard it said Christians "do not need to follow the Golden Rule". But
the Golden Rule is at the heart of Christ's law and even after being
born-again and accepting forgiveness from God, we should walk in the light,
following Christ's law. Applying love to the Golden Rule, we have the second
of the great commandments, the Royal Law, which is to: "Love your neighbour
as yourself". It's actually very important.

We are supposed to fulfill the Royal Law, even after having received
forgiveness:

  James 2:1 - My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our
  Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. (ESV)

  James 2:8-9 - If you really fulfill the royal law according to the
  Scripture, You shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well.
  But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the
  law as transgressors. (ESV)

But we must love like Christ loved us in the knowledge that He loved us
first. We must forgive our family in Christ, as we have been forgiven:

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

AMEN!!

  James 2:8-13 - If you really fulfill the royal law according to the
  Scripture, You shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well.
  But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the
  law as transgressors. For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one
  point has become accountable for all of it. For he who said, Do not commit
  adultery, also said, Do not murder. If you do not commit adultery but do
  murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as
  those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is
  without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.

AMEN!!

  Romans 2:13 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before
  God, but the doers (4163. poiétés) of the law who will be justified. (ESV)

Yup - and in truth. I think the commandments often need to be looked at to
see what loving looks like.

  Romans 3:31 - Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On
  the contrary, we uphold the law. (ESV)

AMEN!!

Watch
youtube.com: When You Become Chosen You Will Find Yourself Alone

30.4.2. It matters that we are loving, going into eternity

  Matthew 5:30 - And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and
  throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that
  your whole body go into hell. (ESV)

  Matthew 18:3 - and said, Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become
  like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.

  Matthew 18:9 - And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it
  away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to
  be thrown into the hell of fire.

30.4.3. We must submit to the righteousness from God through faith in Jesus

  Romans 10:3-5 - For, being ignorant of the righteousness that comes from
  God, and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's
  righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to
  everyone who believes. For Moses writes about the righteousness that is
  based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by
  them.

Following Christ's law is how to love. Trusting in Jesus is having faith in
Him.

Submitting to the righteousness that comes through having faith in Jesus is
believing and obeying the Gospel.

 1. All things are put under Jesus' feet whether we are compliant or
understand it or not

The victory has already been won.

Jesus Christ has overcome the world and He is the head of all rule and
authority.

Everything is in subjection to Jesus, God has left nothing outside Jesus'
control.

From our perspective it may look like things are still being brought into
subjection to Him. It still looks that way to me:

  John 16:33 - I have said these things to you, that in me you may have
  peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have
  overcome the world. (ESV)

  Colossians 2:9-15 - For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells
  bodily, and you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule
  and authority. In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision
  made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the
  circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in
  which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful
  working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you, who were dead in
  your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive
  together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses, by canceling
  the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This
  he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and
  authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him.

  Colossians 2:20 - If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits of
  the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit
  to regulations—

Even from the believer's perspective, we have already won:

  1 John 4:4 - Little children, you are from God and have overcome them,
  for he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. (ESV)

  Romans 8:37 - No, in all these things we are more than conquerors
  through him who loved us.

Father God is LORD of Heaven and Earth:

  Matthew 11:25 - At that time Jesus declared, I thank you, Father, Lord
  of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise
  and understanding and revealed them to little children;

  Luke 10:21 - In that same hour he rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said,
  I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden
  these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to
  little children; yes, Father, for such was your gracious will.

  Acts 17:24 - The God who made the world and everything in it, being
  Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by man,

All things are placed under Jesus' feet:

  Psalms 8:6 - You have given him dominion over the works of your hands;
  you have put all things under his feet,

  Colossians 2:15 - He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them
  to open shame, by triumphing over them in him. (ESV)

Jesus has already conquered:

  Revelation of John 3:21 - The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit
  with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father
  on his throne.

In our own lives we conquer the enemy by the blood of the Lamb (the blood
of Jesus Christ) and the word of our testimony:

  Revelation of John 12:11 - And they have conquered him by the blood of
  the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their
  lives even unto death.

All things are under God's feet. In the LORD, all of the offspring of
Israel shall be justified:

  Isaiah 45:22-25 - Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth!
  For I am God, and there is no other. By myself I have sworn; from my
  mouth has gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return: To me
  every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance. Only in the
  LORD, it shall be said of me, are righteousness and strength; to him
  shall come and be ashamed all who were incensed against him. In the
  LORD all the offspring of Israel shall be justified and shall glory.
  (ESV)

Everything is in subjection to Jesus, God has left nothing outside Jesus'
control.

From our perspective it may look like things are still being brought into
subjection to Him. It still looks that way to me:

  Ephesians 1:22 - And he put all things under his feet and gave him as
  head over all things to the church,

  Hebrews 2:5-8 - Now it was not to angels that God subjected the world
  to come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere,
  What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you
  care for him? You made him for a little while lower than the angels;
  you have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in
  subjection under his feet. Now in putting everything in subjection to
  him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see
  everything in subjection to him.

Everything is put in subjection under Jesus and in subjection under
Father God:

  I Corinthians 15:24-28 - Then comes the end, when he delivers the
  kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every
  authority and power. For he must reign until he has put all his enemies
  under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For God has
  put all things in subjection under his feet. But when it says, all
  things are put in subjection, it is plain that he is excepted who put
  all things in subjection under him. When all things are subjected to
  him, then the Son himself will also be subjected to him who put all
  things in subjection under him, that God may be all in all.

Song
youtube.com: Victor's Crown - Darlene Zschech {Official Live Video}

30.4.4. The Kingdom of Heaven - is a kingdom of servants

 1. you must be holy!

The parable of the 10 virgins:

  Matthew 25:1-13 - Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins
  who took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were
  foolish, and five were wise. For when the foolish took their lamps,
  they took no oil with them, but the wise took flasks of oil with their
  lamps. As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept.
  But at midnight there was a cry, Here is the bridegroom! Come out to
  meet him. Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. And the
  foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are
  going out. But the wise answered, saying, Since there will not be
  enough for us and for you, go rather to the dealers and buy for
  yourselves. And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came, and
  those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, and the
  door was shut. Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, Lord,
  lord, open to us. But he answered, Truly, I say to you, I do not know
  you. Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour.

When we repent from sin we allow Jesus' holiness to shine through us
increasingly. Therefore, it's really not our own holiness or power that
is responsible for miracles that happen through us or in cooperation with
us, but it is Jesus' power and holiness. Jesus is the True Vine. We are
the branches. AMEN!! We can do nothing apart from Him. AMEN!! Everyone
who names the name of the Lord must depart from iniquity.

Polycarp 6:3
Let us therefore so serve Him with fear and all reverence, as He himself
gave commandment and the Apostles who preached the Gospel to us and the
prophets who proclaimed beforehand the coming of our Lord; being zealous
as touching that which is good, abstaining from offenses and from the
false brethren and from them that bear the name of the Lord in hypocrisy,
who lead foolish men astray.

Our bodies are a vessel for Jesus' holiness to shine out of. It's the
vessel of the Holy Spirit: Jesus is the light in us, and we must let our
light shine.

 2. you must be a servant!

The parable of the bags of gold:

  Matthew 25:14-30 - For it will be like a man going on a journey, who
  called his servants and entrusted to them his property. To one he gave
  five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his
  ability. Then he went away. He who had received the five talents went
  at once and traded with them, and he made five talents more. So also he
  who had the two talents made two talents more. But he who had received
  the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money.
  Now after a long time the master of those servants came and settled
  accounts with them. And he who had received the five talents came
  forward, bringing five talents more, saying, Master, you delivered to
  me five talents; here I have made five talents more. His master said to
  him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over
  a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.
  And he also who had the two talents came forward, saying, Master, you
  delivered to me two talents; here I have made two talents more. His
  master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been
  faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of
  your master. He also who had received the one talent came forward,
  saying, Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not
  sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed, so I was afraid, and I
  went and hid your talent in the ground. Here you have what is yours.
  But his master answered him, You wicked and slothful servant! You knew
  that I reap where I have not sowed and gather where I scattered no
  seed? Then you ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at
  my coming I should have received what was my own with interest. So take
  the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents. For to
  everyone who has will more be given, and he will have an abundance. But
  from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. And cast
  the worthless servant into the outer darkness. In that place there will
  be weeping and gnashing of teeth. (ESV)

Eternal punishment vs eternal life:

  Matthew 25:31-46 - When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the
  angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him
  will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from
  another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will
  place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. Then the King
  will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father,
  inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
  For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me
  drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you
  clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came
  to me. Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we
  see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when
  did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And
  when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you? And the King will
  answer them, Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of
  these my brothers, you did it to me. Then he will say to those on his
  left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for
  the devil and his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I
  was thirsty and you gave me no drink, I was a stranger and you did not
  welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you
  did not visit me. Then they also will answer, saying, Lord, when did we
  see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison,
  and did not minister to you? Then he will answer them, saying, Truly, I
  say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did
  not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal punishment, but
  the righteous into eternal life. (ESV)

 3. Deliverance for Jesus' servants

  Isaiah 54:17 - no weapon that is fashioned against you shall succeed,
  and you shall confute every tongue that rises against you in judgment.
  This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD and their vindication
  from me, declares the LORD. (ESV)

31. Coming into the Body of Christ / into abiding in Jesus

When we do what Jesus says, it's as if Jesus is working through us. We are
like a man building a house, but it is actually the Lord Jesus building it. A
person must/should do what Jesus said:

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

  Psalms 127:1 - Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor
  in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in
  vain.

We must throw out the old and allow God to build the new house/life for us.
We must cooperate with God by doing what Jesus has instructed, and not
fighting against Jesus' commandments.

We work, obediently serving God, but it's God working in us:

  Philippians 2:12-13 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your
  own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both
  to will and to work for his good pleasure. (ESV)

We must obey Jesus.

31.1. An infant in Christ - still of the flesh - not spiritual

Potentially still driven by:

• jealousy
• strife

  I Corinthians 3:1 - But I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual
  people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ. (ESV)

youtube.com: How to Restore a Sinning Saint: Galatians 6:1-5, Part 1 @time: 4
min 54 sec
This is an illustration of why we need specific commandments. Remember last
time I argued that it's not enough to say, "Walk by the Spirit." You need
specific illustrations, and this (Galatians 6:1-5) is a good example of that.
Suppose somebody said, "No, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
patience, kindness, goodness, meekness, gentleness, self-control. If we live
by those, we wont get in other people's lives and make lives miserable for
them, and bring out their sin into the open. How would you answer that? We
would answer it by saying, "Look, the Holy Spirit Himself in chapter 6, verse
1 of Galatians has told us that is not a right application of the fruit of
the Spirit. You are drawing inferences from the fruit of the Spirit that are
unbiblical; They're unfaithful. That's why we need the whole Scripture, not
just vague statements about walking according to the Spirit or walking in
love. We need specifics, and this is a specific. If you find somebody in
transgression, love is not passive. Love does not turn away. Love doesn't
sweep it under the rug." - Rather, you who are spiritual (walking by the
Spirit) should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. The spiritual person is
bearing fruit of the Spirit. They are walking by the Spirit. They are keeping
in step with the Spirit.

31.2. A disciple of Jesus - someone who has been obedient to Jesus

Jesus still refers to new disciples as "little ones". Disciples have been
obediently following Jesus:

  Luke 14:26-33 - If anyone comes to me and does not hate (3404. miseó, 3404
  miséō – properly, to detest (on a comparative basis); hence, denounce; to
  love someone or something less than someone (something) else, i.e. to
  renounce one choice in favor of another.) his own father and mother and
  wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he
  cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after
  me cannot be my disciple. For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does
  not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete
  it? Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all
  who see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not
  able to finish. Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war,
  will not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand
  to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand? And if not, while
  the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms
  of peace. So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he
  has cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

Look, here's a blessing for loving Jesus and not being an enemy of the cross:

  Matthew 10:40-42 - Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives
  me receives him who sent me. The one who receives a prophet because he is a
  prophet will receive a prophet's reward, and the one who receives a
  righteous person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous
  person's reward. And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of
  cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he will by no
  means lose his reward. (ESV)

Disciples of Jesus carry their cross and face tribulation:

  Acts 14:22 - strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to
  continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must
  enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

Jesus, on His cross said, "I thirst.":

  John 19:28 - After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to
  fulfill the Scripture), I thirst. (ESV)

Paul the Apostle asked for mercy - "From now on let no one cause me trouble"
- he might have been at little bit stressed. Paul most surely was carrying
His cross:

  Galatians 6:14-17 - But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of
  our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I
  to the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. And as for all who walk by this rule,
  peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God. From now on let
  no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus. (ESV)

31.3. A person who is mature in Christ

Mature and stable. Grown beyond fleshly things. Not sucked into the old ways
of vainglory and provocation and envy.

youtube.com: How to Restore a Sinning Saint: Galatians 6:1-5, Part 1 @time: 7
min 53 sec

  Colossians 1:28 - Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone
  with all wisdom, that we may present everyone mature in Christ. (ESV)

The righteousness from God that depends on faith (obedient faith). We are
found in Christ by exercising and passing forward Christ's love. Mature in
Christ means knowing Jesus, the Truth, which necessitates obeying Him:

  Philippians 3:8-17 - Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the
  surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have
  suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I
  may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
  that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the
  righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and the
  power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him
  in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from
  the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect, but
  I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I
  press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ
  Jesus. Let those of us who are mature think this way, and if in anything
  you think otherwise, God will reveal that also to you. Only let us hold
  true to what we have attained. Brothers, join in imitating me, and keep
  your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. (ESV)

We progress in the Christian life practicing to distinguish good from evil:

  I Corinthians 2:15 - The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself
  to be judged by no one. (ESV)

  Hebrews 5:9-14 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after
  the order of Melchizedek. About this we have much to say, and it is hard to
  explain, since you have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you
  ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic
  principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food, for
  everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since
  he is a child. But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their
  powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from
  evil. (ESV)

Jesus said to these believers that if they abide in His word (and I believe
that means keep His word, even in obedience), they are His disciples - so a
person can be a believer before they are a disciple. But we're supposed to
make this transition:

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

And they will know the Truth.

31.3.1. Don't be an enemy of the cross to others - Don't allow enemies of the
cross to deter you, but rather pray for them

Polycarp 12:3
Pray for all the saints. Pray also for kings and powers and princes and for
them that persecute and hate you and for the enemies of the cross, that your
fruit may be manifest among all men, that ye may be perfect in Him.

We must be thinking as a person of Heaven.

• youtube.com: Live Like You Belong in Heaven: Philippians 3:18-21, Part 7

  Philippians 3:18-21 - For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell
  you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is
  destruction, their god is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with
  minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it
  we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body
  to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject
  all things to himself. (ESV)

  Galatians 15:16-18 - Only let us hold true to what we have attained.
  Brothers, join in imitating me, and keep your eyes on those who walk
  according to the example you have in us. For many, of whom I have often
  told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of
  Christ. (ESV)

31.4. Pray for others to come into Jesus' Kingdom

• youtube.com: Ducklings vs. Stairs

As we come into Jesus' Kingdom, we should be praying for and trying to lead
others to come into Jesus' Kingdom.

  Matthew 9:37-38 - Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful,
  but the laborers are few; therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the
  harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. (ESV)

  I Timothy 2:1-4 - First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers,
  intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all
  who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life,
  godly and dignified in every way. This is good, and it is pleasing in the
  sight of God our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to
  the knowledge of the truth. (ESV)

And build each other up to help each other attain unity of faith and
knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God:

  Ephesians 4:12-13 - to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for
  building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the
  faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the
  measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, (ESV)

31.5. Don't abandon but support born-again, obedient, faithful disciples of
Jesus, not pushing them back to worldly thinking

Support and encourage them for correction with regards to sound doctrine that
is Scriptural, bearing their burdens as a disciple bears others' burdens,
because it's a profound a real thing to be born-again of the Spirit and walk
in obedience to Jesus, and the teachings of Christ are supposed to be
followed by Christians.

Jesus still refers to new disciples as "little ones". Disciples have been
obediently following Jesus:

  Luke 14:26-33 - If anyone comes to me and does not hate (3404. miseó, 3404
  miséō – properly, to detest (on a comparative basis); hence, denounce; to
  love someone or something less than someone (something) else, i.e. to
  renounce one choice in favor of another.) his own father and mother and
  wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he
  cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after
  me cannot be my disciple. For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does
  not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete
  it? Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all
  who see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not
  able to finish. Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war,
  will not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand
  to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand? And if not, while
  the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms
  of peace. So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he
  has cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

Look, here's a blessing for loving Jesus and not being an enemy of the cross:

  Matthew 10:40-42 - Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives
  me receives him who sent me. The one who receives a prophet because he is a
  prophet will receive a prophet's reward, and the one who receives a
  righteous person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous
  person's reward. And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of
  cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he will by no
  means lose his reward. (ESV)

Disciples of Jesus carry their cross and face tribulation:

  Acts 14:22 - strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to
  continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must
  enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

Jesus, on His cross said, "I thirst.":

  John 19:28 - After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to
  fulfill the Scripture), I thirst. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:12 - Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for
  so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. (ESV)

  Galatians 6:2-6 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he
  deceives himself. But let each one test his own work, and then his reason
  to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor. For each will
  have to bear his own load. One who is taught the word must share all good
  things with the one who teaches. (ESV)

32. Faith

One must have faith to receive the gift of salvation. Faith is belief and
obedience. "By faith_ Abraham obeyed".

  Mark 11:22 - And Jesus answered them, Have faith in God.

I like to think about faith in God as an equation like: Believing-God *
Obedience/Action/Work/Love/PatientEndurance.

  Mark 11:23 - Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, Be taken
  up and thrown into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes
  that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him.

  Mark 11:24 - Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that
  you have received it, and it will be yours.

Abraham believed and obeyed to receive:

  Hebrews 11:8 - By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a
  place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not
  knowing where he was going. (ESV)

Because we love and obey God, loving and obeying Jesus, we receive from God
when we ask in faith:

  I John 3:22 - and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep his
  commandments and do what pleases him. (ESV)

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of faith:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

33. Receiving the Holy Spirit

youtube.com: How to Seek the Holy Spirit @time: 48 min 13 sec
"If anyone keeps Jesus' word, holds fast, treasures it, in obedience, that
person will not be quenching the Spirit, that person will not be grieving the
Spirit, but will know the fullness and sweetness of fellowship with the
Father and the Son." - AMEN to that, John Piper

33.1. The Holy Spirit cleanses the heart by faith

  Acts 15:7 - And after there had been much debate, Peter stood up and said
  to them, Brothers, you know that in the early days God made a choice among
  you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and
  believe.

  Acts 15:8-9 - And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, by giving
  them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us, and he made no distinction
  between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.

For example, out of faith in trying to follow the 10 Commandments / 2 Great
Commandments, the heart is cleaned by the Holy Spirit.

Faith involves obedience. It's repentance from sin to the aligning of the
heart to God's commandments.

33.2. The faith itself may be a gift, but certainly is cooperative

I believe that becoming the righteousness of God is initially instantaneous
when we believe but going forward it also is cooperative as we live,
submitting to the righteousness of God (Jesus' righteousness) and then being
found in Jesus, letting Jesus wash us, and work in us, transform us, and that
a childlike trust in Jesus (a believing and obedient trust), following Jesus,
walking in faith, and behaving as one of God's children, following Jesus our
Lord and Saviour is how we receive and walk into the kingdom which is given
to us and that walking in a childlike faith in Jesus is how we have the
righteousness that is by faith. I believe we have righteousness because we
are found in Him, and He is our High Priest and or Lord and King, and
Saviour. Living by faith is a lifestyle to be found in Jesus and that's how
we have righteousness from Him, because we are found in Him and are being
perfected and sanctified like a branch getting healthier because it's
connected to Jesus. It does not mean we are able to displace Him as the head
of the body because we don't have righteousness apart from Him (as far as I
understand):

  II Corinthians 5:21-6:1 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no
  sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Working
  together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God
  in vain. (ESV)

God and Abram (Abraham) had a real relationship first.

God spoke to Abram first, and then Abram obeyed. Abraham was faithful. God
noticed Abram's faithfulness, and told Abram he would be rewarded. God gave
Abram a promise. Abram believed God.

But God made the first move. The first move from Abraham's perspective was
obedience, followed by belief.

The Lord God spoke first - this itself is a gift. We have the Bible and the
testimony of others as a gift from God. We must then believe what is said in
the Holy Scriptures and trust it and obey it (put into practice).

The Holy Spirit goes to those who obey God, and causes the person to walk in
God's precepts - stopping lying, stealing, coveting, idolizing, cheating,
etc.

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

Faith involves:

• Obedience
• Loyalty (faithfulness to God)
• God rewarded Abram with a promise
• Abram believed God
• God counted Abram's belief as righteousness

  Genesis 12:1 - Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your
  kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you.

Abraham obeyed God.

  Genesis 12:4 - So Abram went, as the Lord had told him, and Lot went with
  him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran.

God promised him something, and gave Abram an instruction.

  Genesis 13:14 - The Lord said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him,
  Lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and
  southward and eastward and westward, for all the land that you see I will
  give to you and to your offspring forever. I will make your offspring as
  the dust of the earth, so that if one can count the dust of the earth, your
  offspring also can be counted. Arise, walk through the length and the
  breadth of the land, for I will give it to you.

Abram obeyed.

  Genesis 13:18 - So Abram moved his tent and came and settled by the oaks of
  Mamre, which are at Hebron, and there he built an altar to the Lord.

OBEDIENCE!

  Hebrews 5:9-10 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after
  the order of Melchizedek.

Abram interacted with Melchizedek, priest of God Most High, blessed by God
Most High. Abram was faithful to God even when God wasn't speaking directly
to Him. God can see everything though.

  Genesis 14:18-20 - And Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and
  wine. (He was priest of God Most High. ) And he blessed him and said,
  Blessed be Abram by God Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth; and
  blessed be God Most High, who has delivered your enemies into your hand!
  And Abram gave him a tenth of everything.

Abram, in an act of faith with faithfulness, displayed loyalty to God. Abram
wanted to prove it will be God who has empowered future blessing which Abram
has faith about.

  Genesis 14:21-24 - And the king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the
  persons, but take the goods for yourself. But Abram said to the king of
  Sodom, I have lifted my hand to the Lord, God Most High, Possessor of
  heaven and earth, that I would not take a thread or a sandal strap or
  anything that is yours, lest you should say, I have made Abram rich. I will
  take nothing but what the young men have eaten, and the share of the men
  who went with me. Let Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre take their share.

The Apostle John's children/disciples were walking in love while walking in
the truth, and rejecting offerings from Gentiles who were not walking in the
truth:

  III John 1:4-8 - I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are
  walking in the truth. Beloved, it is a faithful thing you do in all your
  efforts for these brothers, strangers as they are, who testified to your
  love before the church. You will do well to send them on their journey in a
  manner worthy of God. For they have gone out for the sake of the name,
  accepting nothing from the Gentiles. Therefore we ought to support people
  like these, that we may be fellow workers for the truth. (ESV)

God noticed and gave Abram a vision and made a promise to Abram, and Abram
believed God and God counted it to Abram as righteousness:

  Genesis 15:1-6 - After these things the word of the LORD came to Abram in a
  vision, saying, “Do not fear, Abram, I am a shield to you; Your reward
  shall be very great.” Abram said, “O Lord GOD, what will You give me, since
  I am childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?” And Abram
  said, “Since You have given no offspring to me, one born in my house is my
  heir.” Then behold, the word of the LORD came to him, saying, “This man
  will not be your heir; but one who will come forth from your own body, he
  shall be your heir.” And He took him outside and said, “Now look toward the
  heavens, and count the stars, if you are able to count them.” And He said
  to him, “So shall your descendants be.” Then he believed (539. aman) in the
  LORD; and He reckoned it to him as righteousness. (NASB)

539. aman
to confirm, support

33.2.1. Faith and works - they overlap and are not mutually exclusive!

  James 2:22-25 - You see that faith was active along with his works, and
  faith was completed by his works; and the Scripture was fulfilled that
  says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness-and
  he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works
  and not by faith alone. And in the same way was not also Rahab the
  prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent
  them out by another way?

A person, I think, can be justified by faith that includes obedient action.

Even continued belief in the form of patient endurance is a work, I think!

I believe justification is God's prerogative, and He justifies because of our
faith in Jesus, not because of any dead work we offer Him. I just believe
that faith in Jesus may include obedient action. Actually, I believe that
even believing in Jesus is obedience, because Jesus commanded it.

  Romans 5:1 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.

  Galatians 2:16 - yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the
  law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ
  Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the
  law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.

  Galatians 3:24-26 - So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in
  order that we might be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we
  are no longer under a guardian, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of
  God, through faith.

But I think God can save a person who has belief without work because God is
sovereign to save in this way.

Anyway, see Revelation and you will see Jesus points out different works for
different churches.

  Revelation of John 2:2 - I know your works, your toil and your patient
  endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested
  those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false.

  Revelation of John 2:5 - Remember therefore from where you have fallen;
  repent, and do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and
  remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent.

  Revelation of John 2:6 - Yet this you have: you hate the works of the
  Nicolaitans, which I also hate.

  Revelation of John 2:19 - I know your works, your love and faith and
  service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first.

  Revelation of John 2:22-23 - Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and
  those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great tribulation,
  unless they repent of her works, and I will strike her children dead. And
  all the churches will know that I am he who searches mind and heart, and I
  will give to each of you as your works deserve.

  Revelation of John 3:1-2 - And to the angel of the church in Sardis write:
  The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I
  know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead.
  Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not
  found your works complete in the sight of my God.

  Revelation of John 3:8 - I know your works. Behold, I have set before you
  an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little
  power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.

  Revelation of John 3:15 - I know your works: you are neither cold nor hot.
  Would that you were either cold or hot!

33.2.2. The faith of Abraham looks like this. This is what salvation-accepting
faith looks like

To be justified by working faith, a person must have the faith of Abraham. By
faith Abraham obeyed. So the faith has the fruit of walking in the footsteps
of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

Salvation is received by faith - which necessitates an obedient heart:

  Romans 3:25 - whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be
  received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins.

Faith receives - believing in Him is having faith in Him - trusting Him:

  Acts 10:41-44 - not to all the people but to us who had been chosen by God
  as witnesses, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. And
  he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one
  appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead. To him all the
  prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives
  forgiveness of sins through his name. While Peter was still saying these
  things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word. (ESV)

Although a gift, salvation must be asked for and sought after:

  Luke 11:9-13 - And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and
  you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks
  receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be
  opened. What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of
  a fish give him a serpent; or if he asks for an egg, will give him a
  scorpion? If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your
  children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to
  those who ask him!

Obeying God.

  Hebrews 11:8 - By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a
  place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not
  knowing where he was going.

  Genesis 12:1-3 - Now the LORD said to Abram, Go from your country and your
  kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I
  will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name
  great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you,
  and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the
  earth shall be blessed. (ESV)

Believing God.

  Genesis 15:1-6 - After these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a
  vision: Fear not, Abram, I am your shield; your reward shall be very great.
  But Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me, for I continue
  childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus? And Abram said,
  Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will
  be my heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him: This man shall
  not be your heir; your very own son shall be your heir. And he brought him
  outside and said, Look toward heaven, and number the stars, if you are able
  to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. And he
  believed (539. aman) the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness.

Conviction.

  Hebrews 11:17-19 - By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac,
  and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only
  son, of whom it was said, Through Isaac shall your offspring be named. He
  considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which,
  figuratively speaking, he did receive him back.

Like Abraham, a believer's faith may be tested:

Trust in God.,

Fear of God.,

Testable faith.

  Genesis 22:9-14 - When they came to the place of which God had told him,
  Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order and bound Isaac
  his son and laid him on the altar, on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached
  out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of the
  Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said,
  Here am I. He said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him,
  for now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son,
  your only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and
  behold, behind him was a ram, caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham
  went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his
  son. So Abraham called the name of that place, The Lord will provide; as it
  is said to this day, On the mount of the Lord it shall be provided.

Holding onto the promise, even to death if required.

  Hebrews 11:13 - These all died in faith, not having received the things
  promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having
  acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth.

Like Abraham, a believer keeps the faith right to the end of their life or
until Jesus takes them home:

Patient endurance / waiting on God (belief * time).

We should have busy (non-sluggish) faith, and imitate the faith of people
such as Abraham, so that we inherit the promises. We can believe those
promises which we inherit.

  Hebrews 6:12-15 - so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those
  who through faith and patience inherit the promises. For when God made a
  promise to Abraham, since he had no one greater by whom to swear, he swore
  by himself, saying, Surely I will bless you and multiply you. And thus
  Abraham, having patiently waited, obtained the promise.

  Revelation of John 3:8 - I know your works. Behold, I have set before you
  an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little
  power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name. Behold, I
  will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and
  are not, but lie-behold, I will make them come and bow down before your
  feet and they will learn that I have loved you. Because you have kept my
  word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that
  is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth.

Song
youtube.com: Sometimes By Step

33.2.3. The repentance of turning away from sin is an act of faith / a work of
faith and also essential for eternal life, I think

  Matthew 21:32 - For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you
  did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed
  him. And even when you saw it, you did not afterward change your minds and
  believe him. (ESV)

To follow the law by faith, I think, is to not lie, commit adultery, idolize,
etc. in truth and reality, keeping yourself accountable to God.

This is the key, I think, to following the law by faith: praise from God and
not men.

  Romans 2:29 - But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that
  which is of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter; and his praise is
  not from men, but from God.

Actually complying with the law (not breaking it) is good:

  James 4:11-12 - Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one
  who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against the
  law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the
  law but a judge. There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to
  save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? (ESV)

It's God who judges and gives mercy:

  Romans 9:15-16 - For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have
  mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then it
  depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy. (ESV)

If a person is abiding by God's commandments then that is pleasing to God:

  I Chronicles 29:17-19 - I know, my God, that you test the heart and have
  pleasure in uprightness. In the uprightness of my heart I have freely
  offered all these things, and now I have seen your people, who are present
  here, offering freely and joyously to you. O LORD, the God of Abraham,
  Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep forever such purposes and thoughts in
  the hearts of your people, and direct their hearts toward you. Grant to
  Solomon my son a whole heart that he may keep your commandments, your
  testimonies, and your statutes, performing all, and that he may build the
  palace for which I have made provision. (ESV)

  James 1:25 - But one who looks intently at the perfect law, the law of
  liberty, and abides by it, not having become a forgetful hearer but an
  effectual doer, this man will be blessed in what he does.

We should seek to be faithful to God who seeks our heart. It's about a real
relationship with God:

  Luke 16:15-17 - And he said to them, You are those who justify yourselves
  before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is exalted among men is an
  abomination in the sight of God. The Law and the Prophets were until John;
  since then the good news of the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone
  forces his way into it. But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away
  than for one dot of the Law to become void.

• John the baptist taught 'turn from sin and believe in the One to come':
• Acts 19:4 - And Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of
repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come
after him, that is, Jesus. (ESV)
• Jesus taught to 'come to and believe in Him (Jesus) for forgiveness and
forsake sin':
• John 8:11 - She said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I
condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more. (ESV)

  Acts 3:25-26 - You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant that
  God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham, And in your offspring shall
  all the families of the earth be blessed. God, having raised up his
  servant, sent him to you first, to bless you by turning every one of you
  from your wickedness.

Stopping sinning is important from either angle.

  I Corinthians 15:34 - Wake up from your drunken stupor, as is right, and do
  not go on sinning. For some have no knowledge of God. I say this to your
  shame. (ESV)

• The apostles also taught people to turn from sin, believe and forsake
sin.

  John 5:14 - Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See,
  you are well! Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you.

Sin leads to death:

  Proverbs 6:32 - He who commits adultery lacks sense; he who does it
  destroys himself. (ESV)

  John 5:14 - Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See,
  you are well! Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. (ESV)

  Ezekiel 18:20 - The soul who sins shall die. The son shall not suffer for
  the iniquity of the father, nor the father suffer for the iniquity of the
  son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the
  wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself. (ESV)

  Romans 8:13 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if
  by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.

Examples of receiving forgiveness from Jesus.

  Matthew 9:2 - And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic, lying on
  a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Take
  heart, my son; your sins are forgiven.

Forgiven after Jesus saw their faith.

  Mark 2:5 - And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, My
  son, your sins are forgiven.

Acts of faith.

  Matthew 9:5 - For which is easier, to say, Your sins are forgiven, or to
  say, Rise and walk?

  Mark 2:9 - Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, Your sins are
  forgiven, or to say, Rise, take up your bed and walk?

Turning.

  Mark 4:11-12 - And he said to them, To you has been given the secret of the
  kingdom of God, but for those outside everything is in parables, so that
  they may indeed see but not perceive, and may indeed hear but not
  understand, lest they should turn and be forgiven.

  John 8:11 - She said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn
  you; go, and from now on sin no more.

33.3. Loving God is obedience to God

  I John 5:2-3 - By this we know that we love the children of God, when we
  love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we
  keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.

33.4. The law

  Matthew 19:4-9 - He answered, Have you not read that he who created them
  from the beginning made them male and female, and said, Therefore a man
  shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they
  shall become one flesh? So they are no longer two but one flesh. What
  therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. They said to him,
  Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send
  her away? He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart Moses allowed
  you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. And I say
  to you: whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and
  marries another, commits adultery. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:14-20 - You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill
  cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but
  on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let
  your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and
  give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Do not think that I have come
  to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to
  fulfill them. For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away,
  not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
  Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and
  teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of
  heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the
  kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that
  of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
  (ESV)

  Leviticus 18:22 - You shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is an
  abomination. (ESV)

  Romans 7:22 - For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being, (ESV)

33.4.1. The law may be pursued by faith. Justification through faith

Faith eclipses the law:

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

  Galatians 3:21-29 - Is the law then contrary to the promises of God?
  Certainly not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then
  righteousness would indeed be by the law. But the Scripture imprisoned
  everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be
  given to those who believe. Now before faith came, we were held captive
  under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So
  then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be
  justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a
  guardian, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. For
  as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is
  neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither
  male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are
  Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise.
  (ESV)

The ones under the law who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that
Abraham had before he was circumcised, come under the umbrella of the faith
of Abraham, which the Gentiles who also share the faith of Abraham are
included within.

|             ‖
|           =====
|             ‖
|             ‖
| 
|           Faith (Galatians 3:6-9)
|         /       \
|    Those who     Gentiles who share
|  pursue the law      the faith
|     by faith          of Abraham

  Galatians 3:6-9 - just as Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him
  as righteousness? Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of
  Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles
  by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall
  all the nations be blessed. So then, those who are of faith are blessed
  along with Abraham, the man of faith. (ESV)

If a son of Abraham repents from sin and forgives (return stolen goods) they
can have salvation:

  Luke 19:1-10 - He entered Jericho and was passing through. And there was a
  man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich. And he was
  seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not,
  because he was small of stature. So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a
  sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way. And when Jesus
  came to the place, he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, hurry and come
  down, for I must stay at your house today. So he hurried and came down and
  received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all grumbled, He has gone
  in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said
  to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if
  I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said
  to him, Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of
  Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. (ESV)

We can start by believing what God told us through Jesus:

  John 8:40 - but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth
  that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. (ESV)

  Romans 9:31-32 - but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to
  righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did
  not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works. They have
  stumbled over the stumbling stone, (ESV)

The most important thing though is faith because it applies to both the
adherent of the law and also the Gentile who has faith. It seems like the
adherent of the law must walk in the ways Abraham did before he was
circumcised.

  Romans 4:16 - That is why it depends on faith, in order that the promise
  may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring-not only to the
  adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham,
  who is the father of us all, (ESV)

  Genesis 14:20-15:1 - and blessed be God Most High, who has delivered your
  enemies into your hand! And Abram gave him a tenth of everything. And the
  king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the persons, but take the goods for
  yourself. But Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted my hand to the
  LORD, God Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth, that I would not take a
  thread or a sandal strap or anything that is yours, lest you should say, I
  have made Abram rich. I will take nothing but what the young men have
  eaten, and the share of the men who went with me. Let Aner, Eshcol, and
  Mamre take their share. After these things the word of the LORD came to
  Abram in a vision: Fear not, Abram, I am your shield; your reward shall be
  very great. (ESV)

Perhaps it is that James was himself circumcised and walked in the way that
Abraham did before he was circumcised:

  James 2:22-26 - You see that faith was active along with his works, and
  faith was completed by his works; and the Scripture was fulfilled that
  says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness—and
  he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works
  and not by faith alone. And in the same way was not also Rahab the
  prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent
  them out by another way? For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so
  also faith apart from works is dead. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:1-5 - I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were
  all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized
  into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual
  food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the
  spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. Nevertheless,
  with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the
  wilderness.

  Galatians 3:21 - Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly
  not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness
  would indeed be by the law. (ESV)

33.4.2. One in Christ Jesus - not excluding the adherent of the law

As far as I understand, a person can be a Jew or a Gentile and it's the same
gospel, but they're having faith in Christ from two different vantage points:

  Galatians 3:7-9 - Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of
  Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles
  by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall
  all the nations be blessed. So then, those who are of faith are blessed
  along with Abraham, the man of faith. (ESV)

  Romans 9:6-8 - But it is not as though the word of God has failed. For not
  all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel, and not all are
  children of Abraham because they are his offspring, but Through Isaac shall
  your offspring be named. This means that it is not the children of the
  flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are
  counted as offspring. (ESV)

God can raise a person up to keep the precepts of the law with the faith of
Abraham, and become a Jew:

  Romans 2:25-29 - For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law,
  but if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So, if
  a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his
  uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically
  uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code
  and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one
  outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one
  inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by
  the letter. His praise is not from man but from God. (ESV)

  Proverbs 23:7 - For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he: Eat and drink,
  saith he to thee; but his heart is not with thee. (KJV)

  Romans 4:11-12 - He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the
  righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The
  purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being
  circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to
  make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but
  who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had
  before he was circumcised. (ESV)

  John 8:39 - They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them,
  If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what Abraham did, (ESV)

  Matthew 3:9 - And do not presume to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as
  our father, for I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up
  children for Abraham. (ESV)

  Romans 10:12 - For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; the same
  Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him.

  I Corinthians 12:13 - For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one
  body-Jews or Greeks, slaves or free-and all were made to drink of one
  Spirit.

  Galatians 3:28 - There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor
  free, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ
  Jesus.

33.4.3. But we are not justified by the law. We are justified by faith

  Galatians 5:4 - You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by
  the law; you have fallen away from grace.

We receive the Holy Spirit through faith:

  Galatians 3:2 - Let me ask you only this: Did you receive the Spirit by
  works of the law or by hearing with faith?􄌹

But faith is obedient.

33.5. Mercy

Mercy is available from God, and there are some things we can do as we ask
God for mercy:

  Romans 9:15-16 - For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have
  mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then it
  depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy. (ESV)

Accept correction from God, and ask God for mercy to change to love God and
your neighbour better:

  Luke 18:13 - But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift
  up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me,
  a sinner! (ESV)

Forgive others:

  Matthew 6:12-15 - and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our
  debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For if
  you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive
  you, but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your
  Father forgive your trespasses. (ESV)

Be merciful to others:

  Matthew 5:7 - Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.

Be humble:

  James 4:6 - But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the
  proud, but gives grace to the humble. (ESV)

33.6. The law is good, if used properly - and its usage is part of the gospel

  1 Timothy 1:8-11 - Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it
  lawfully, understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just
  but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the
  unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for
  murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers,
  liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine, in
  accordance with the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have
  been entrusted. (ESV)

33.7. Both Father God and Jesus Christ God's Son have life in Himself and the
power to resurrect

  John 5:24-26 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and
  believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come (2064.
  erchomai) into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Truly, truly, I
  say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the
  voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For as the Father
  has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in
  himself.

  John 5:21 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also
  the Son gives life to whom he will. (ESV)

33.8. Salvation in no-one else other than Jesus Christ - But we must obey the
gospel, and walk in the Way

  Acts 4:12 - And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other
  name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. (ESV)

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
  No one comes to the Father except through me.

Jesus has shown us the Way we have to walk in. The Way is Himself. To walk in
it we make Him our Teacher and believe Him and obey Him, and arrive at the
Truth, and the Truth is Himself.

  Hebrews 10:19 - Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the
  holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened
  for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh,

  Isaiah 30:20-21 - And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and
  the water of affliction, yet your Teacher will not hide himself anymore,
  but your eyes shall see your Teacher. And your ears shall hear a word
  behind you, saying, This is the way, walk in it, when you turn to the right
  or when you turn to the left.

  Deuteronomy 18:15-19 - The LORD your God will raise up for you a prophet
  like me from among you, from your brothers—it is to him you shall listen —
  just as you desired of the LORD your God at Horeb on the day of the
  assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God
  or see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the LORD said to me, They
  are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like
  you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he
  shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to
  my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him.
  (ESV)

  John 12:49-50 - For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father
  who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say and what to
  speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say,
  therefore, I say as the Father has told me.

  John 14:6-7 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
  No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you
  would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have seen
  him.

  John 14:16-24 - And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another
  Helper, to be with you forever, In that day you will know that I am in my
  Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has my commandments and keeps
  them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my
  Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.

Jesus manifests to those who keep His word and obey Him:

  John 14:22-23 - Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, Lord, how is it that you
  will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world? Jesus answered him, If
  anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we
  will come to him and make our home with him.

  I John 2:4-6 - Whoever says I know him but does not keep his commandments
  is a liar, and the truth is not in him, but whoever keeps his word, in him
  truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may be sure that we are in
  him: whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which
  he walked.

  John 14:24 - Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word
  that you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me.

33.9. Anyone who believes in Him receives forgiveness of sins

  Acts 10:43: Of Him all the prophets bear witness that through His name
  everyone who believes in Him receives forgiveness of sins."

But before and/or after believing and being forgiven a person needs to also
turn away from sin. To be 'saved' I think means:

• for God to forgive one's sins through Jesus Christ, and
• for that person to be progressing towards holiness and not away from
holiness - towards sanctification and ultimately, eternal life
• the Holy Spirit helps a person to do that
• to be eagerly waiting for Jesus to save them

  Hebrews 9:27-28 - And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and
  after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the
  sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save
  those who are eagerly waiting for him.

Becoming a slave of God, rather than sin, the fruit you get leads to
sanctification and at the end, eternal life - it leads to knowing the only
true God, and Jesus Christ who He sent.

  Romans 6:16-22 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone
  as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But
  thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient
  from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,
  and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. I
  am speaking in human terms, because of your natural limitations. For just
  as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness
  leading to more lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to
  righteousness leading to sanctification. When you were slaves of sin, you
  were free in regard to righteousness. But what fruit were you getting at
  that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? The end of those
  things is death. But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its
  end, eternal life. (ESV)

So obedience leads to sanctification which leads to eternal life which is
knowing God and Jesus Christ.

Repentance from sin is required step for those who are in sin, along with
forgiveness, and is followed up with sanctification and eternal life.

  Luke 15:7 - Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one
  sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no
  repentance. (ESV)

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.

33.9.1. Eternal life available for all who believe in Jesus, but obedience and
sanctification is necessary

  John 3:14-18 - And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so
  must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have
  eternal life. For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God
  did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that
  the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not
  condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he
  has not believed in the name of the only Son of God.

I believe there is a strong emphasis on continued belief, and becoming a
bondservant of God.

• 'may have'
• 'should' not perish

After being born-again and placed into Christ, we must put to death the old
leaven. We consider ourselves dead to sin and alive from the dead.

We continue trusting, believing Jesus Christ and we will never die.

A believer in Jesus Christ though he dies, he shall live:

• Whoever believes in Jesus Christ, though he die, yet shall he live.

Everyone who lives and believes in Jesus Christ shall never die.

  John 11:25-26 - Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life.
  Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who
  lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? (ESV)

desiringgod.org: Invincible in Christ: How Believers Never Die | Desiring God

34. Spiritual gifts

  I Corinthians 12:28-31 - And God has appointed in the church first
  apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of
  healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues. Are all
  apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles? Do all
  possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? But
  earnestly desire the higher gifts. And I will show you a still more
  excellent way. (ESV)

34.1. Excel in building up the church to see manifestations of the Spirit

  I Corinthians 14:12 - So with yourselves, since you are eager for
  manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church.

34.2. Using one's mind to speak to others intelligible words in the church is not
subordinate to speaking in tongues

  I Corinthians 14:19 - Nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five
  words with my mind in order to instruct others, than ten thousand words in
  a tongue.

34.3. Rebuking Marcionism

I've noticed some pretty bad heresy floating around the churches which may
come from Marcionism. Sadly it seems, doctrines of Marcionism seem to be
quite prevalent these days in the church. I personally believe there is no
antithesis between Lordship and Free grace. I think that probably comes from
Marcionism. We are saved to serve God. The followers of Jesus are able to be
taught by Christ and corrected - they hear Jesus' voice and follow Him - and
that includes repentance (turning away) from sin - it's Lordship. The Apostle
Paul taught Lordship.

Apparently, Marcion perverted teachings of the oracles of the Lord such as
the Apostle Paul, and led many astray.

Polycarp 6:3
For every one who shall not confess that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh,
is antichrist: and whosoever shall not confess the testimony of the Cross, is
of the devil; and whosoever shall pervert the oracles of the Lord to his own
lusts and say that there is neither resurrection nor judgment, that man is
the firstborn of Satan.

thegospelcoalition.org: Marcion and Getting Unhitched from the Old Testament

Marcion was one of the most successful heretics in the early church. He was
opposed by everyone who was anyone.

For nearly a century after his death, he was the arch-heretic, opposed by
Polycarp (who called him the firstborn of Satan), Justin Martyr, Irenaeus,
Clement, Tertullian, Hippolytus, and Origen.

He was one of the few heretics that the Greek and Latin Christians united in
condemning.

After his excommunication, he traveled around the world as a missionary for
his version of Christianity.

And he won a lot of converts.

According to Tertullian, he planted churches as “wasps make nests,” teaching
men “to deny that God is the maker of all things in heaven and earth and the
Christ predicted by the prophets is his Son.” Marcion’s church was rigorous,
demanding, inspiring, well- organized, and for about a century fairly
successful.

Marcion’s theological errors (and there were many) came from one main root:
he refused to believe that the God of the Old Testament was the same as the
Father of the Lord Jesus Christ.

Marcion simply could not believe in a God full of wrath and justice.

So he threw away the Old Testament and took for his Bible a truncated version
of Luke’s Gospel and selectively edited versions of Paul’s epistles.

When all the cutting and pasting was finished, Marcion had the Christianity
he wanted: a God of goodness and nothing else a message of inspiring moral
uplift a Bible that does away with the uncomfortable bits about God’s wrath
and hell.

Marcionism was antinomian, idealistic about human potential, and skittish
about dogma and rules.

So yeah, I just rebuke that spirit of Marcionism in Jesus Christ's name.

34.4. I was tested today <2024-11-24 Sun>

Today <2024-11-24 Sun>, I was under test, over the passage of I Cor 14:18-40.

I attended Elim Church in the morning and the message was about speaking the
truth in love, so that is what I will try to do here.

34.4.1. Prophesy etiquette

  I John 4:1-3 - Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits
  to see whether they are from God, for many false prophets have gone out
  into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that
  confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, and every
  spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of
  the antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already.
  (ESV)

I'll let the Didache speak for itself here
But not every one who speaks in the Spirit is a prophet but only if he holds
the ways of the Lord. Therefore from their ways shall the false prophet and
the prophet be known. And every prophet who orders a meal in the Spirit does
not eat it, unless he is indeed a false prophet. And every prophet who
teaches the truth, but does not do what he teaches, is a false prophet. And
every prophet, proved true, working unto the mystery of the Church in the
world, yet not teaching others to do what he himself does, shall not be
judged among you, for with God he has his judgment for so did also the
ancient prophets. But whoever says in the Spirit, Give me money, or something
else, you shall not listen to him. But if he tells you to give for others'
sake who are in need, let no one judge him.

I think when it comes to "reliable prophesy", that prophet has to be keeping
the ways of the Lord (i.e. keeping Jesus' commandments, and walking in
holiness).

34.4.2. Woman speakers

I then attended another pentecostal church (which I have been attending the
last month), and a woman delivered today's message. Yesterday I had added the
section below on "tongues etiquette" and I realised this evening that I'm
being tested on I Corinthians 14:33-38, particularly in regards to woman
speaking in church and on the tongues etiquette, and it is very important
that I affirm the Apostle Paul here, and I believe that his command from the
Lord Jesus is backed up and after my experience today, I am compelled to
affirm the truth of the command.

Firstly, I will just mention that I have heard some great sermons that have
come from woman, even recently. But, I still do not affirm the practice.

I have been tested today on I Cor 14, and I have to take today's events
consideration.

The "gratitude activating grace" message which I heard today by a woman
pastor gave me some chilling red flags.

The NLT translation was mostly used, and Romans 3:24 was brought up. I don't
affirm the NLT translation.

  Romans 3:24 - and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the
  redemption that is in Christ Jesus, (ESV)

For example, the NLT here affirms that we were already justified. But the
Scripture does not strictly say that. We are justified through faith in
Jesus, and God is the justifier of who has faith in Jesus. Thus, the NLT is a
bad translation because it's twisting the truth even in this verse.

  Romans 3:24 - Yet God, in his grace, freely makes us right in his sight. He
  did this through Christ Jesus when he freed us from the penalty for our
  sins. (NLT)

The sermon spoken today came across as cheap-grace/hyper-grace mixed with the
"law of attraction" to me. Now I do understand that we must give thanks to
God.

Another thing that was said was that all believers are saints. Now, that is
more controversial but I'm going to go with my current understanding of
Scripture and say that I do not affirm that all believers are saints. Even
the demons are 'believers' in a sense, but they don't abide in the love of
God because they don't keep Jesus' commandments. The saints from what I can
see from Scripture are those who keep their faith in Jesus and also the
commandments of God, and while Jesus' yoke is light, the full yoke of the
Lord pulls a very weighty load - it's called carrying one's cross. Saints
carry their cross and will judge the world, therefore, the saints are not
cheap-grace believers - they're disciples of Jesus who keep His commandments.
Therefore, Saints keep Christ's law and help carry others' crosses. Not all
'believers' do this, sorry.

Quote by Charles Spurgeon
All are "saints" whom God has called by His grace and sanctified by His
Spirit;

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

  Ephesians 1:1 - Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, To the
  saints who are in Ephesus, and are faithful in Christ Jesus:

  Revelation of John 12:17 - Then the dragon became furious with the woman
  and went off to make war on the rest of her offspring, on those who keep
  the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus. And he stood on
  the sand of the sea.

  Revelation of John 14:12 - Here is a call for the endurance of the saints,
  those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus.

  Psalms 97:10 - O you who love the Lord, hate evil! He preserves the lives
  of his saints; he delivers them from the hand of the wicked.

  I John 5:3 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

I am increasingly of the opinion that there is a subtle difference between
simply 'believer' and 'saint' who is also a believer. Believers are forgiven
through Jesus' name. Saints both believe and keep God's commandments,
carrying their cross. Saints are disciples of Jesus who have been sanctified
by the Truth. Believing disciples of Jesus may become saints:

  II Thessalonians 1:9-12 - They will suffer the punishment of eternal
  destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his
  might, when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints, and to be
  marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was
  believed. To this end we always pray for you, that our God may make you
  worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work
  of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified
  in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord
  Jesus Christ. (ESV)

A saint is someone who has faith in Jesus and also loves as God commanded.
Not people who are unfaithful to Jesus - not merely a believer but someone
who gives up their life for Jesus.

  Ephesians 1:1 - Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, To the
  saints who are in Ephesus, and are faithful in Christ Jesus: (ESV)

I read the commandments as being the Great commandments, 10 Commandments and
faith in Jesus Christ, and potentially various other commandments from the
Mosaic law if you know about them, or whatever subset a person practices by
faith making themself accountable to God.

I have to agree with the Apostle Paul here:

  I Corinthians 14:33-38 - For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. As
  in all the churches of the saints, the women should keep silent in the
  churches. For they are not permitted to speak, but should be in submission,
  as the Law also says. If there is anything they desire to learn, let them
  ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in
  church. Or was it from you that the word of God came? Or are you the only
  ones it has reached? If anyone thinks that he is a prophet, or spiritual,
  he should acknowledge that the things I am writing to you are a command of
  the Lord. If anyone does not recognize this, he is not recognized. (ESV)

34.4.3. Tongues etiquette

I then went to another Pentecostal church <2024-11-24 Sun>, which has been my
home church for the last 2-3 years (also I should mention the local Reformed
church has also been a support to me through 2022 and 2023).

They handled the routine aspect of I Corinthians 14:18-32 today pretty well;
allowing people to speak in tongues and seeking interpretation, with a good
amount of prophesy mixed in. A healthy balance of tongues and prophesy,
songs, and scripture. However, I think that it should be accompanied by
teaching people to be discerning with the prophesies/visions/etc. It seemed
like it was all for building people up though which is good. But I was very
disappointed that testing the spirits was not mentioned, but wildly, it was
taught that we should simply speak the dreams and visions so that they come
to pass. Very dodgy. We're not supposed to prophesy lying dreams or visions,
etc. We've got to teach testing and discernment. We've got to test the
spirits. It's very unwise to spread around any old vision or dream we get,
and interpret them for ourselves without asking for interpretation, etc. I've
spread lying visions to other people before and it has resulted in disastrous
consequences. Very concerning stuff.

Tongues and prophecy should be encouraged, but there is etiquette.

I Corinthians 14:21-23, from what I can see seems to say that for the
unbelievers, prophesy is not a sign, but I Corinthians 14:24-25 says that
prophesy will convicts them, and calls them to account. But tongues to the
unbeliever is a sign and they are perplexed by it but not convicted - rather
they are confused.

This clearly says that unbelievers are convicted when they hear prophesy, but
that tongues doesn't help them to hear the Lord. It also says that speaking
words of instruction with our minds (bridled by the Word of God, I might add)
is a priority over tongues. The way this word sign (G4592 sémeion) as it is
used seems to indicate that it perplexes people because it's an unusual
occurance. So to unbelievers tongues is a sémeion but to believers it is not
unusual. And prophecy also perplexes believers and we should seek to weigh in
on what is said, and prophesy convicts unbelievers.

  I Corinthians 14:18-32 - I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all
  of you. Nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my
  mind in order to instruct others, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
  Brothers, do not be children in your thinking. Be infants in evil, but in
  your thinking be mature. 21 In the Law it is written, By people of strange
  tongues and by the lips of foreigners will I speak to this people, and even
  then they will not listen to me, says the Lord. 22 Thus tongues are a sign
  (G4592 sémeion) not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is a
  sign not for unbelievers but for believers. 23 If, therefore, the whole
  church comes together and all speak in tongues, and outsiders or
  unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are out of your minds? 24 But
  if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by
  all, he is called to account by all, 25 the secrets of his heart are
  disclosed, and so, falling on his face, he will worship God and declare
  that God is really among you. What then, brothers? When you come together,
  each one has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, or an
  interpretation. Let all things be done for building up. If any speak in a
  tongue, let there be only two or at most three, and each in turn, and let
  someone interpret. But if there is no one to interpret, let each of them
  keep silent in church and speak to himself and to God. Let two or three
  prophets speak, and let the others weigh what is said. If a revelation is
  made to another sitting there, let the first be silent. For you can all
  prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all be encouraged, and the
  spirits of prophets are subject to prophets. (ESV)

|  5620    3588    1100    1519 4592    1510     3756 3588
|  Hōste   hai     glōssai eis  sēmeion eisin    ou   tois
|  Ὥστε    αἱ      γλῶσσαι εἰς  σημεῖόν εἰσιν  , οὐ   τοῖς
|  So then  -      tongues for  a sign  are      not  to those
|  Conj    Art-NFP N-NFP   Prep N-ANS   V-PIA-3P Adv  Art-DMP
| 
|  4100           235  3588    571         3588    1161
|  pisteuousin    alla tois    apistois    hē      de
|  πιστεύουσιν  , ἀλλὰ τοῖς    ἀπίστοις  ; ἡ       δὲ
|   believing      but  to the  unbelieving  -      but
|   V-PPA-DMP      Conj Art-DMP Adj-DMP     Art-NFS Conj
|  
|   4394       3756     3588    571         235
|   prophēteia ou       tois    apistois    alla
|   προφητεία  οὐ       τοῖς    ἀπίστοις  , ἀλλὰ
|   prophecy   [is] not to the  unbelieving but
|   N-NFS      Adv      Art-DMP Adj-DMP     Conj
|  
|   3588    4100
|   tois    pisteuousin
|   τοῖς    πιστεύουσιν  .
|   to the  believing
|   Art-DMP V-PPA-DMP

4592 sēmeíon
a sign (typically miraculous), given especially to confirm, corroborate or
authenticate. 4592 /sēmeíon ("sign") then emphasizes the end-purpose which
exalts the one giving it. Accordingly, it is used dozens of times in the NT
for what authenticates the Lord and His eternal purpose, especially by doing
what mere man can not replicate of take credit for.

youtube.com: An Open Letter to the Pentecostal Churches - Speaking in Tongues

but it has been turned into a spiritual competition our validation before God
or even a measure of our salvation and it's none of that but a supernatural
move of the spirit upon a mere weak man to proclaim the words of God.

Speaking in tongues won't save you.

Speaking in tongues won't validate you before God.

Speaking tongues doesn't make you more spiritual than your brother or sister
in the pew next to you.

But when it becomes this in your church you quench the Spirit by bringing
disorder into the fellowship and bringing a bad witness to the Gospel of
Jesus.

  I Corinthians 14:23-25 - If, therefore, the whole church comes together and
  all speak in tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say
  that you are out of your minds? But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or
  outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all,
  the secrets of his heart are disclosed, and so, falling on his face, he
  will worship God and declare that God is really among you. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 14:26 - What then, brothers? When you come together, each one
  has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. Let all
  things be done for building up. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 14:27-28 - If any speak in a tongue, let there be only two or
  at most three, and each in turn, and let someone interpret. But if there is
  no one to interpret, let each of them keep silent in church and speak to
  himself and to God. (ESV)

34.5. The utterance of tongues is given by the Spirit

youtube.com: What Is Speaking in Tongues?

  Acts 2:4 - And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak
  in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. (ESV)

34.6. This type of tongues is for communicating with one another - like a
"babel-fish" - when people speak, people hear them speak in their language

It breaks down language barriers.

  Acts 2:6-11 - And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were
  bewildered, because each one was hearing them speak in his own language.
  And they were amazed and astonished, saying, Are not all these who are
  speaking Galileans? And how is it that we hear, each of us in his own
  native language? Parthians and Medes and Elamites and residents of
  Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia,
  Egypt and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome,
  both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians—we hear them telling in our
  own tongues the mighty works of God. (ESV)

34.7. This type of tongues is for speaking to God

  I Corinthians 14:2 - For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but
  to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit.

The spirit prays when a person prays in tongues to God.

  I Corinthians 14:2 - For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but
  to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit.

  I Corinthians 14:14-15 - For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays but my
  mind is unfruitful. What am I to do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will
  pray with my mind also; I will sing praise with my spirit, but I will sing
  with my mind also.

35. The prophets

  Psalms 51:9-11 - Hide your face from my sins, and blot out all my
  iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit
  within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy
  Spirit from me. (ESV)

  Zechariah 13:1 - "In that day a fountain will be opened for the house of
  David and for the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for impurity. (ESV)

  Isaiah 53:11 - As a result of the anguish of His soul, He will see it and
  be satisfied; By His knowledge the Righteous One, My Servant, will justify
  the many, As He will bear their iniquities. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 31:34 - They will not teach again, each man his neighbor and each
  man his brother, saying, 'Know the LORD,' for they will all know Me, from
  the least of them to the greatest of them," declares the LORD, "for I will
  forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more." (ESV)

  Malachi 4:2 - "But for you who fear My name, the sun of righteousness will
  rise with healing in its wings; and you will go forth and skip about like
  calves from the stall. (ESV)

  Daniel 9:24 - "Seventy weeks have been decreed for your people and your
  holy city, to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, to make
  atonement for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up
  vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy place. (ESV)

  Micah 7:18 - Who is a God like You, who pardons iniquity And passes over
  the rebellious act of the remnant of His possession? He does not retain His
  anger forever, Because He delights in unchanging love. (ESV)

  2 Chronicles 7:14 - if my people who are called by my name humble
  themselves, and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then
  I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land.
  (ESV)

35.1. 44 Prophecies Jesus Christ Fulfilled

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About  Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 1:20 - But as he
considered these things, behold,
Genesis 3:15 - I will    an angel of the Lord appeared to
put enmity between you   him in a dream, saying, Joseph,
and the woman, and       son of David, do not fear to
Messiah would be  between your offspring   take Mary as your wife, for that
born of a woman.  and her offspring; he    which is conceived in her is
shall bruise your head,  from the Holy Spirit. (ESV),
and you shall bruise     Galatians 4:4 - But when the
his heel. (ESV)          fullness of time had come, God
sent forth his Son, born of
woman, born under the law, (ESV)
Matthew 2:1 - Now after Jesus
was born in Bethlehem of Judea
in the days of Herod the king,
Micah 5:2 - But you, O   behold, wise men from the east
Bethlehem Ephrathah,     came to Jerusalem, (ESV), Luke
who are too little to    2:4-6 - And Joseph also went up
Messiah would be  be among the clans of    from Galilee, from the town of
born in           Judah, from you shall    Nazareth, to Judea, to the city
Bethlehem.        come forth for me one    of David, which is called
who is to be ruler in    Bethlehem, because he was of the
Israel, whose origin is  house and lineage of David, to
from of old, from        be registered with Mary, his
ancient days. (ESV)      betrothed, who was with child.
And while they were there, the
time came for her to give birth.
(ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About      Old Testament          New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus             Scripture
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 1:22-23 - All this took
place to fulfill what the Lord had
spoken by the prophet: Behold, the
virgin shall conceive and bear a
son, and they shall call his name
Immanuel (which means, God with
us). (ESV), Luke 1:26-31 - In the
Isaiah 7:14 -        sixth month the angel Gabriel was
Therefore the Lord   sent from God to a city of Galilee
himself will give    named Nazareth, to a virgin
you a sign. Behold,  betrothed to a man whose name was
Messiah would be   the virgin shall     Joseph, of the house of David. And
born of a virgin.  conceive and bear a  the virgin's name was Mary. And he
son, and shall call  came to her and said, Greetings, O
his name Immanuel.   favored one, the Lord is with you!
(ESV)                But she was greatly troubled at the
saying, and tried to discern what
sort of greeting this might be. And
the angel said to her, Do not be
afraid, Mary, for you have found
favor with God. And behold, you
will conceive in your womb and bear
a son, and you shall call his name
Jesus. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About    Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Genesis 12:3 - I will       Matthew 1:1 - The book of
bless those who bless you,  the genealogy of Jesus
and him who dishonors you   Christ, the son of David,
I will curse, and in you    the son of Abraham. (ESV),
Messiah would come  all the families of the     Romans 9:5 - To them belong
from the line of    earth shall be blessed.     the patriarchs, and from
Abraham.            (ESV), Genesis 22:18 - and  their race, according to
in your offspring shall     the flesh, is the Christ
all the nations of the      who is God over all,
earth be blessed, because   blessed forever. Amen.
you have obeyed my voice.   (ESV)
(ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About        Old Testament Scripture          New Testament
Jesus                                                Fulfillment
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Genesis 17:19 - God said, No, but
Sarah your wife shall bear you a
son, and you shall call his name
Isaac. I will establish my
covenant with him as an            Luke 3:34 - the son
Messiah would be a  everlasting covenant for his       of Jacob, the son of
descendant of       offspring after him. (ESV),        Isaac, the son of
Isaac.              Genesis 21:12 - But God said to    Abraham, the son of
Abraham, Be not displeased         Terah, the son of
because of the boy and because of  Nahor, (ESV)
your slave woman. Whatever Sarah
says to you, do as she tells you,
for through Isaac shall your
offspring be named. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About     Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Numbers 24:17 - I see him,
but not now; I behold him,    Matthew 1:2 - Abraham was
but not near: a star shall    the father of Isaac, and
Messiah would be a  come out of Jacob, and a      Isaac the father of
descendant of       scepter shall rise out of     Jacob, and Jacob the
Jacob.              Israel; it shall crush the    father of Judah and his
forehead of Moab and break    brothers, (ESV)
down all the sons of Sheth.
(ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About   Old Testament Scripture    New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Genesis 49:10 - The      Luke 3:33 - the son of
scepter shall not        Amminadab, the son of Admin,
depart from Judah, nor   the son of Arni, the son of
Messiah would come  the ruler's staff from   Hezron, the son of Perez, the
from the tribe of   between his feet, until  son of Judah, (ESV), Hebrews
Judah.              tribute comes to him;    7:14 - For it is evident that
and to him shall be the  our Lord was descended from
obedience of the         Judah, and in connection with
peoples. (ESV)           that tribe Moses said nothing
about priests. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About      Old Testament Scripture            New Testament
Jesus                                                Fulfillment
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
II Samuel 7:12-13 - When your
days are fulfilled and you lie
down with your fathers, I will    Luke 1:32-33 - He will
raise up your offspring after     be great and will be
you, who shall come from your     called the Son of the
body, and I will establish his    Most High. And the Lord
kingdom. He shall build a house   God will give to him
for my name, and I will           the throne of his
Messiah would be  establish the throne of his       father David, and he
heir to King      kingdom forever. (ESV), Isaiah    will reign over the
David's throne.   9:7 - Of the increase of his      house of Jacob forever,
government and of peace there     and of his kingdom
will be no end, on the throne of  there will be no end.
David and over his kingdom, to    (ESV), Romans 1:3 -
establish it and to uphold it     concerning his Son, who
with justice and with             was descended from
righteousness from this time      David according to the
forth and forevermore. The zeal   flesh (ESV)
of the LORD of hosts will do
this. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About   Old Testament Scripture      New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Luke 1:33 - and he will reign
over the house of Jacob
Psalms 45:6-7 - Your        forever, and of his kingdom
throne, O God, is forever   there will be no end. (ESV),
and ever. The scepter of    Hebrews 1:8-12 - But of the
your kingdom is a scepter   Son he says, Your throne, O
of uprightness; you have    God, is forever and ever, the
loved righteousness and     scepter of uprightness is the
hated wickedness.           scepter of your kingdom. You
Therefore God, your God,    have loved righteousness and
has anointed you with the   hated wickedness; therefore
Messiah's throne  oil of gladness beyond      God, your God, has anointed
will be anointed  your companions; (ESV),     you with the oil of gladness
and eternal.      Daniel 2:44 - And in the    beyond your companions. And,
days of those kings the     You, Lord, laid the
God of heaven will set up   foundation of the earth in
a kingdom that shall never  the beginning, and the
be destroyed, nor shall     heavens are the work of your
the kingdom be left to      hands; they will perish, but
another people. It shall    you remain; they will all
break in pieces all these   wear out like a garment, like
kingdoms and bring them to  a robe you will roll them up,
an end, and it shall stand  like a garment they will be
forever, (ESV)              changed. But you are the
same, and your years will
have no end. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About     Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Isaiah 7:14 - Therefore the    Matthew 1:23 - Behold, the
Lord himself will give you a   virgin shall conceive and
Messiah would be  sign. Behold, the virgin       bear a son, and they shall
called Immanuel.  shall conceive and bear a      call his name Immanuel
son, and shall call his name   (which means, God with
Immanuel. (ESV)                us). (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About       Old Testament         New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus              Scripture
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 2:14-15 - And he rose
Hosea 11:1 - When     and took the child and his
Israel was a child,   mother by night and departed to
Messiah would spend  I loved him, and out  Egypt and remained there until
a season in Egypt.   of Egypt I called my  the death of Herod. This was to
son. (ESV)            fulfill what the Lord had spoken
by the prophet, Out of Egypt I
called my son. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About        Old Testament         New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus               Scripture
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 2:16-18 - Then Herod,
when he saw that he had been
tricked by the wise men,
Jeremiah 31:15 - Thus   became furious, and he sent
says the LORD: A voice  and killed all the male
is heard in Ramah,      children in Bethlehem and in
lamentation and bitter  all that region who were two
A massacre of        weeping. Rachel is      years old or under, according
children would       weeping for her         to the time that he had
happen at Messiah's  children; she refuses   ascertained from the wise men.
birthplace.          to be comforted for     Then was fulfilled what was
her children, because   spoken by the prophet
they are no more.       Jeremiah: A voice was heard in
(ESV)                   Ramah, weeping and loud
lamentation, Rachel weeping
for her children; she refused
to be comforted, because they
are no more. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About   Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Isaiah 40:3-5 - A voice   Luke 3:3-6 - And he went into
cries: In the wilderness  all the region around the
prepare the way of the    Jordan, proclaiming a baptism
LORD; make straight in    of repentance for the
the desert a highway for  forgiveness of sins. As it is
our God. Every valley     written in the book of the
shall be lifted up, and   words of Isaiah the prophet,
A messenger would  every mountain and hill   The voice of one crying in the
prepare the way    be made low; the uneven   wilderness: Prepare the way of
for Messiah        ground shall become       the Lord, make his paths
level, and the rough      straight. Every valley shall
places a plain. And the   be filled, and every mountain
glory of the LORD shall   and hill shall be made low,
be revealed, and all      and the crooked shall become
flesh shall see it        straight, and the rough places
together, for the mouth   shall become level ways, and
of the LORD has spoken.   all flesh shall see the
(ESV)                     salvation of God. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About       Old Testament Scripture           New Testament
Jesus                                                Fulfillment
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Psalms 69:8 - I have become a
stranger to my brothers, an alien  John 1:11 - He came to
to my mother's sons. (ESV),        his own, and his own
Messiah would be  Isaiah 53:3 - He was despised and  people did not receive
rejected by his   rejected by men; a man of          him. (ESV), John 7:5 -
own people.       sorrows, and acquainted with       For not even his
grief; and as one from whom men    brothers believed in
hide their faces he was despised,  him. (ESV)
and we esteemed him not. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About  Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Acts 3:20-22 - that times of
refreshing may come from the
presence of the Lord, and that
Deuteronomy 18:15 - The  he may send the Christ appointed
LORD your God will       for you, Jesus, whom heaven must
raise up for you a       receive until the time for
Messiah would be  prophet like me from     restoring all the things about
a prophet.        among you, from your     which God spoke by the mouth of
brothers—it is to him    his holy prophets long ago.
you shall listen— (ESV)  Moses said, The Lord God will
raise up for you a prophet like
me from your brothers. You shall
listen to him in whatever he
tells you. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About      Old Testament Scripture            New Testament
Jesus                                                Fulfillment
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Malachi 4:5-6 - Behold, I will
send you Elijah the prophet       Matthew 11:13-14 - For
before the great and awesome day  all the Prophets and
Messiah would be  of the LORD comes. And he will    the Law prophesied
preceded by       turn the hearts of fathers to     until John, and if you
Elijah.           their children and the hearts of  are willing to accept
children to their fathers, lest   it, he is Elijah who is
I come and strike the land with   to come. (ESV)
a decree of utter destruction.
(ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About       Old Testament         New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus              Scripture
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 3:16-17 - And when Jesus
was baptized, immediately he
Psalms 2:7 - I will   went up from the water, and
tell of the decree:   behold, the heavens were opened
Messiah would be     The LORD said to me,  to him, and he saw the Spirit of
declared the Son of  You are my Son;       God descending like a dove and
God.                 today I have          coming to rest on him; and
begotten you. (ESV)   behold, a voice from heaven
said, This is my beloved Son,
with whom I am well pleased.
(ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About   Old Testament Scripture    New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Isaiah 11:1 - There      Matthew 2:23 - And he went and
shall come forth a       lived in a city called
Messiah would be    shoot from the stump of  Nazareth, that what was spoken
called a Nazarene.  Jesse, and a branch      by the prophets might be
from his roots shall     fulfilled: He shall be called
bear fruit. (ESV)        a Nazarene. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About   Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Isaiah 9:1-2 - But there   Matthew 4:13-16 - And leaving
will be no gloom for her   Nazareth he went and lived in
who was in anguish. In     Capernaum by the sea, in the
the former time he         territory of Zebulun and
brought into contempt the  Naphtali, so that what was
land of Zebulun and the    spoken by the prophet Isaiah
land of Naphtali, but in   might be fulfilled: The land
Messiah would     the latter time he has     of Zebulun and the land of
bring light to    made glorious the way of   Naphtali, the way of the sea,
Galilee.          the sea, the land beyond   beyond the Jordan, Galilee of
the Jordan, Galilee of     the Gentiles— the people
the nations. The people    dwelling in darkness have seen
who walked in darkness     a great light, and for those
have seen a great light;   dwelling in the region and
those who dwelt in a land  shadow of death, on them a
of deep darkness, on them  light has dawned. (ESV)
has light shined. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About  Old Testament Scripture      New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 13:10-15 - Then the
disciples came and said to him,
Why do you speak to them in
parables? And he answered them,
To you it has been given to
Psalms 78:2-4 - I will    know the secrets of the kingdom
open my mouth in a        of heaven, but to them it has
parable; I will utter     not been given. For to the one
dark sayings from of      who has, more will be given,
old, things that we have  and he will have an abundance,
heard and known, that     but from the one who has not,
our fathers have told     even what he has will be taken
us. We will not hide      away. This is why I speak to
them from their           them in parables, because
children, but tell to     seeing they do not see, and
the coming generation     hearing they do not hear, nor
the glorious deeds of     do they understand. Indeed, in
the LORD, and his might,  their case the prophecy of
Messiah would     and the wonders that he   Isaiah is fulfilled that says:
speak in          has done. (ESV), Isaiah   You will indeed hear but never
parables.         6:9-10 - And he said,     understand, and you will indeed
Go, and say to this       see but never perceive. For
people: Keep on hearing,  this people's heart has grown
but do not understand;    dull, and with their ears they
keep on seeing, but do    can barely hear, and their eyes
not perceive. Make the    they have closed, lest they
heart of this people      should see with their eyes and
dull, and their ears      hear with their ears and
heavy, and blind their    understand with their heart and
eyes; lest they see with  turn, and I would heal them.
their eyes, and hear      (ESV), Matthew 13:34-35 - All
with their ears, and      these things Jesus said to the
understand with their     crowds in parables; indeed, he
hearts, and turn and be   said nothing to them without a
healed. (ESV)             parable. This was to fulfill
what was spoken by the prophet:
I will open my mouth in
parables; I will utter what has
been hidden since the
foundation of the world. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About       Old Testament Scripture           New Testament
Jesus                                                Fulfillment
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Luke 4:18-19 - The
Isaiah 61:1-2 - The Spirit of the  Spirit of the Lord is
Lord GOD is upon me, because the   upon me, because he
LORD has anointed me to bring      has anointed me to
good news to the poor; he has      proclaim good news to
Messiah would be  sent me to bind up the             the poor. He has sent
sent to heal the  brokenhearted, to proclaim         me to proclaim liberty
brokenhearted.    liberty to the captives, and the   to the captives and
opening of the prison to those     recovering of sight to
who are bound; to proclaim the     the blind, to set at
year of the LORD's favor, and the  liberty those who are
day of vengeance of our God; to    oppressed, to proclaim
comfort all who mourn; (ESV)       the year of the Lord's
favor. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About   Old Testament Scripture    New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Hebrews 5:5-6 - So also Christ
Psalms 110:4 - The LORD  did not exalt himself to be
Messiah would be a  has sworn and will not   made a high priest, but was
priest after the    change his mind, You     appointed by him who said to
order of            are a priest forever     him, You are my Son, today I
Melchizedek.        after the order of       have begotten you; as he says
Melchizedek. (ESV)       also in another place, You are
a priest forever, after the
order of Melchizedek. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About  Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 27:37 - And over his
head they put the charge against
him, which read, This is Jesus,
the King of the Jews. (ESV),
Psalms 2:6 - As for me,  Mark 11:7-11 - And they brought
I have set my King on    the colt to Jesus and threw
Zion, my holy hill.      their cloaks on it, and he sat
(ESV), Zechariah 9:9 -   on it. And many spread their
Rejoice greatly, O       cloaks on the road, and others
daughter of Zion! Shout  spread leafy branches that they
Messiah would be  aloud, O daughter of     had cut from the fields. And
called King.      Jerusalem! behold, your  those who went before and those
king is coming to you;   who followed were shouting,
righteous and having     Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes
salvation is he, humble  in the name of the Lord! Blessed
and mounted on a         is the coming kingdom of our
donkey, on a colt, the   father David! Hosanna in the
foal of a donkey. (ESV)  highest! And he entered
Jerusalem and went into the
temple. And when he had looked
around at everything, as it was
already late, he went out to
Bethany with the twelve. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About   Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Psalms 8:2 - Out of the   Matthew 21:16 - and they said
mouth of babes and        to him, Do you hear what these
Messiah would be   infants, you have         are saying? And Jesus said to
praised by little  established strength      them, Yes; have you never
children.          because of your foes, to  read, Out of the mouth of
still the enemy and the   infants and nursing babies you
avenger. (ESV)            have prepared praise? (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About    Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Luke 22:47-48 - While he was
Psalms 41:9 - Even my close  still speaking, there came a
friend in whom I trusted,    crowd, and the man called
who ate my bread, has        Judas, one of the twelve,
lifted his heel against me.  was leading them. He drew
(ESV), Zechariah 11:12-13 -  near to Jesus to kiss him,
Then I said to them, If it   but Jesus said to him,
seems good to you, give me   Judas, would you betray the
my wages; but if not, keep   Son of Man with a kiss?
Messiah would be  them. And they weighed out   (ESV), Matthew 26:14-16 -
betrayed.         as my wages thirty pieces    Then one of the twelve,
of silver. Then the LORD     whose name was Judas
said to me, Throw it to the  Iscariot, went to the chief
potter—the lordly price at   priests and said, What will
which I was priced by them.  you give me if I deliver him
So I took the thirty pieces  over to you? And they paid
of silver and threw them     him thirty pieces of silver.
into the house of the LORD,  And from that moment he
to the potter. (ESV)         sought an opportunity to
betray him. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About     Old Testament Scripture      New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Zechariah 11:12-13 - Then I     Matthew 27:9-10 - Then
said to them, If it seems good  was fulfilled what had
to you, give me my wages; but   been spoken by the
if not, keep them. And they     prophet Jeremiah, saying,
Messiah's price   weighed out as my wages thirty  And they took the thirty
money would be    pieces of silver. Then the      pieces of silver, the
used to buy a     LORD said to me, Throw it to    price of him on whom a
potter's field.   the potter—the lordly price at  price had been set by
which I was priced by them. So  some of the sons of
I took the thirty pieces of     Israel, and they gave
silver and threw them into the  them for the potter's
house of the LORD, to the       field, as the Lord
potter. (ESV)                   directed me. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About     Old Testament           New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus             Scripture
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Mark 14:57-58 - And some stood up
Psalms 35:11 -        and bore false witness against him,
Messiah would be  Malicious witnesses   saying, We heard him say, I will
falsely accused.  rise up; they ask me  destroy this temple that is made
of things that I do   with hands, and in three days I
not know. (ESV)       will build another, not made with
hands. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About      Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Isaiah 53:7 - He was           Mark 15:4-5 - And Pilate
oppressed, and he was          again asked him, Have you
Messiah would be   afflicted, yet he opened not   no answer to make? See
silent before his  his mouth; like a lamb that    how many charges they
accusers.          is led to the slaughter, and   bring against you. But
like a sheep that before its   Jesus made no further
shearers is silent, so he      answer, so that Pilate
opened not his mouth. (ESV)    was amazed. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About      Old Testament Scripture            New Testament
Jesus                                                Fulfillment
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Isaiah 50:6 - I gave my back to   Matthew 26:67 - Then
Messiah would be  those who strike, and my cheeks   they spit in his face
spat upon and     to those who pull out the beard;  and struck him. And
struck.           I hid not my face from disgrace   some slapped him, (ESV)
and spitting. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About     Old Testament Scripture      New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Psalms 35:19 - Let not those
rejoice over me who are         John 15:24-25 - If I had
wrongfully my foes, and let     not done among them the
not those wink the eye who      works that no one else
hate me without cause. (ESV),   did, they would not be
Messiah would be  Psalms 69:4 - More in number    guilty of sin, but now
hated without     than the hairs of my head are   they have seen and hated
cause.            those who hate me without       both me and my Father.
cause; mighty are those who     But the word that is
would destroy me, those who     written in their Law must
attack me with lies. What I     be fulfilled: They hated
did not steal must I now        me without a cause. (ESV)
restore? (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About      Old Testament Scripture           New Testament
Jesus                                               Fulfillment
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Isaiah 53:12 - Therefore I will  Matthew 27:38 - Then two
divide him a portion with the    robbers were crucified
many, and he shall divide the    with him, one on the
Messiah would be  spoil with the strong, because   right and one on the
crucified with    he poured out his soul to death  left. (ESV), Mark
criminals.        and was numbered with the        15:27-28 - And with him
transgressors; yet he bore the   they crucified two
sin of many, and makes           robbers, one on his
intercession for the             right and one on his
transgressors. (ESV)             left. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About     Old Testament          New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus             Scripture
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 27:34 - they offered him
wine to drink, mixed with gall, but
when he tasted it, he would not
drink it. (ESV), John 19:28-30 -
Psalms 69:21 - They  After this, Jesus, knowing that all
Messiah would be  gave me poison for   was now finished, said (to fulfill
given vinegar to  food, and for my     the Scripture), I thirst. A jar full
drink.            thirst they gave me  of sour wine stood there, so they
sour wine to drink.  put a sponge full of the sour wine
(ESV)                on a hyssop branch and held it to
his mouth. When Jesus had received
the sour wine, he said, It is
finished, and he bowed his head and
gave up his spirit. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About    Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
John 20:25-27 - So the other
Psalms 22:16 - For dogs    disciples told him, We have
encompass me; a company    seen the Lord. But he said to
of evildoers encircles     them, Unless I see in his
me; they have pierced my   hands the mark of the nails,
hands and feet— (ESV),     and place my finger into the
Zechariah 12:10 - And I    mark of the nails, and place
will pour out on the       my hand into his side, I will
house of David and the     never believe. Eight days
Messiah's hands    inhabitants of Jerusalem   later, his disciples were
and feet would be  a spirit of grace and      inside again, and Thomas was
pierced.           pleas for mercy, so that,  with them. Although the doors
when they look on me, on   were locked, Jesus came and
him whom they have         stood among them and said,
pierced, they shall mourn  Peace be with you. Then he
for him, as one mourns     said to Thomas, Put your
for an only child, and     finger here, and see my
weep bitterly over him,    hands; and put out your hand,
as one weeps over a        and place it in my side. Do
firstborn. (ESV)           not disbelieve, but believe.
(ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About     Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Psalms 22:7-8 - All who see    Luke 23:35 - And the
me mock me; they make mouths   people stood by, watching,
Messiah would be  at me; they wag their heads;   but the rulers scoffed at
mocked and        He trusts in the LORD; let     him, saying, He saved
ridiculed.        him deliver him; let him       others; let him save
rescue him, for he delights    himself, if he is the
in him! (ESV)                  Christ of God, his Chosen
One! (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About        Old Testament         New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus               Scripture
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Psalms 22:18 - they     Matthew 27:35-36 - And when
Soldiers would       divide my garments      they had crucified him, they
gamble for           among them, and for my  divided his garments among
Messiah's garments.  clothing they cast      them by casting lots. Then
lots. (ESV)             they sat down and kept watch
over him there. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About  Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
John 19:33-36 - But when they
came to Jesus and saw that he
Exodus 12:46 - It shall  was already dead, they did not
be eaten in one house;   break his legs. But one of the
you shall not take any   soldiers pierced his side with a
of the flesh outside     spear, and at once there came
Messiah's bones   the house, and you       out blood and water. He who saw
would not be      shall not break any of   it has borne witness—his
broken.           its bones. (ESV),        testimony is true, and he knows
Psalms 34:20 - He keeps  that he is telling the
all his bones; not one   truth—that you also may believe.
of them is broken.       For these things took place that
(ESV)                    the Scripture might be
fulfilled: Not one of his bones
will be broken. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About  Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Psalms 22:1 - My God,    Matthew 27:46 - And about the
my God, why have you     ninth hour Jesus cried out with
Messiah would be  forsaken me? Why are     a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli,
forsaken by God.  you so far from saving   lema sabachthani? that is, My
me, from the words of    God, my God, why have you
my groaning? (ESV)       forsaken me? (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About   Old Testament Scripture    New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Psalms 109:4 - In        Luke 23:34 - And Jesus said,
Messiah would pray  return for my love they  Father, forgive them, for they
for his enemies.    accuse me, but I give    know not what they do. And
myself to prayer. (ESV)  they cast lots to divide his
garments. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About       Old Testament Scripture            New Testament
Jesus                                                 Fulfillment
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Zechariah 12:10 - And I will pour
out on the house of David and the
inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit   John 19:34 - But one
Soldiers would    of grace and pleas for mercy, so    of the soldiers
pierce Messiah's  that, when they look on me, on him  pierced his side with
side.             whom they have pierced, they shall  a spear, and at once
mourn for him, as one mourns for    there came out blood
an only child, and weep bitterly    and water. (ESV)
over him, as one weeps over a
firstborn. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About     Old Testament           New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus             Scripture
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 27:57-60 - When it was
evening, there came a rich man from
Isaiah 53:9 - And     Arimathea, named Joseph, who also
they made his grave   was a disciple of Jesus. He went to
with the wicked and   Pilate and asked for the body of
Messiah would be  with a rich man in    Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be
buried with the   his death, although   given to him. And Joseph took the
rich.             he had done no        body and wrapped it in a clean
violence, and there   linen shroud and laid it in his own
was no deceit in his  new tomb, which he had cut in the
mouth. (ESV)          rock. And he rolled a great stone
to the entrance of the tomb and
went away. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About      Old Testament         New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus              Scripture
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Matthew 28:2-7 - And behold, there
was a great earthquake, for an
angel of the Lord descended from
heaven and came and rolled back
the stone and sat on it. His
appearance was like lightning, and
his clothing white as snow. And
for fear of him the guards
trembled and became like dead men.
But the angel said to the women,
Do not be afraid, for I know that
you seek Jesus who was crucified.
He is not here, for he has risen,
as he said. Come, see the place
where he lay. Then go quickly and
tell his disciples that he has
risen from the dead, and behold,
he is going before you to Galilee;
there you will see him. See, I
have told you. (ESV), Acts 2:22-32
- Men of Israel, hear these words:
Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested
to you by God with mighty works
Psalms 16:10 - For   and wonders and signs that God did
you will not         through him in your midst, as you
abandon my soul to   yourselves know— this Jesus,
Sheol, or let your   delivered up according to the
holy one see         definite plan and foreknowledge of
Messiah would       corruption. (ESV),   God, you crucified and killed by
resurrect from the  Psalms 49:15 - But   the hands of lawless men. God
dead.               God will ransom my   raised him up, loosing the pangs
soul from the power  of death, because it was not
of Sheol, for he     possible for him to be held by it.
will receive me.     For David says concerning him, I
Selah (ESV)          saw the Lord always before me, for
he is at my right hand that I may
not be shaken; therefore my heart
was glad, and my tongue rejoiced;
my flesh also will dwell in hope.
For you will not abandon my soul
to Hades, or let your Holy One see
corruption. You have made known to
me the paths of life; you will
make me full of gladness with your
presence. Brothers, I may say to
you with confidence about the
patriarch David that he both died
and was buried, and his tomb is
with us to this day. Being
therefore a prophet, and knowing
that God had sworn with an oath to
him that he would set one of his
descendants on his throne, he
foresaw and spoke about the
resurrection of the Christ, that
he was not abandoned to Hades, nor
did his flesh see corruption. This
Jesus God raised up, and of that
we all are witnesses. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About      Old Testament Scripture     New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Psalms 24:7-10 - Lift up your
heads, O gates! And be lifted
up, O ancient doors, that the  Mark 16:19 - So then the
King of glory may come in.     Lord Jesus, after he had
Who is this King of glory?     spoken to them, was taken
The LORD, strong and mighty,   up into heaven and sat
Messiah would      the LORD, mighty in battle!    down at the right hand of
ascend to heaven.  Lift up your heads, O gates!   God. (ESV), Luke 24:51 -
And lift them up, O ancient    While he blessed them, he
doors, that the King of glory  parted from them and was
may come in. Who is this King  carried up into heaven.
of glory? The LORD of hosts,   (ESV)
he is the King of glory!
Selah (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About     Old Testament Scripture      New Testament Fulfillment
Jesus
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Psalms 68:18 - You ascended on  Mark 16:19 - So then the
high, leading a host of         Lord Jesus, after he had
captives in your train and      spoken to them, was taken
receiving gifts among men,      up into heaven and sat
Messiah would be  even among the rebellious,      down at the right hand of
seated at God's   that the LORD God may dwell     God. (ESV), Matthew 22:44
right hand.       there. (ESV), Psalms 110:1 -    - The Lord said to my
The LORD says to my Lord: Sit   Lord, Sit at my right
at my right hand, until I make  hand, until I put your
your enemies your footstool.    enemies under your feet?
(ESV)                           (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Prophecies About        Old Testament Scripture           New Testament
Jesus                                                 Fulfillment
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Isaiah 53:5-12 - But he was wounded
for our transgressions; he was
crushed for our iniquities; upon
him was the chastisement that
brought us peace, and with his
stripes we are healed. All we like
sheep have gone astray; we have
turned every one to his own way;
and the LORD has laid on him the
iniquity of us all. He was
oppressed, and he was afflicted,
yet he opened not his mouth; like a
lamb that is led to the slaughter,
and like a sheep that before its
shearers is silent, so he opened     Romans 5:6-8 - For
not his mouth. By oppression and     while we were still
judgment he was taken away; and as   weak, at the right
for his generation, who considered   time Christ died for
that he was cut off out of the land  the ungodly. For one
of the living, stricken for the      will scarcely die
transgression of my people? And      for a righteous
Messiah would be  they made his grave with the wicked  person—though
a sacrifice for   and with a rich man in his death,    perhaps for a good
sin.              although he had done no violence,    person one would
and there was no deceit in his       dare even to die—
mouth. Yet it was the will of the    but God shows his
LORD to crush him; he has put him    love for us in that
to grief; when his soul makes an     while we were still
offering for sin, he shall see his   sinners, Christ died
offspring; he shall prolong his      for us. (ESV)
days; the will of the LORD shall
prosper in his hand. Out of the
anguish of his soul he shall see
and be satisfied; by his knowledge
shall the righteous one, my
servant, make many to be accounted
righteous, and he shall bear their
iniquities. Therefore I will divide
him a portion with the many, and he
shall divide the spoil with the
strong, because he poured out his
soul to death and was numbered with
the transgressors; yet he bore the
sin of many, and makes intercession
for the transgressors. (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

35.1.1. Psalm 31 and Jesus' last words and Jesus saving me

  Psalms 31:5 Into Your hand I commit my spirit; You have ransomed me, O
  LORD, God of truth. (NASB)

  Luke 23:46 - Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, Father, into
  your hands I commit my spirit! And having said this he breathed his last.
  (ESV)

The Holy Spirit is a Person:

  John 16:13 - When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the
  truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he
  will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. (ESV)

If the Holy Spirit dwells in you, you are in the Spirit, not in the flesh:

  Romans 8:9 - You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in
  fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit
  of Christ does not belong to him. (ESV)

Holy Spirit has emotions:

  Isaiah 63:10 - But they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit; therefore he
  turned to be their enemy, and himself fought against them. (ESV)

The Spirit of God is God although He belongs to God.

Holy Spirit speaks:

  II Samuel 23:2-4 - The Spirit of the LORD speaks by me; his word is on my
  tongue. The God of Israel has spoken; the Rock of Israel has said to me:
  When one rules justly over men, ruling in the fear of God, he dawns on them
  like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning,
  like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. (ESV)

  Acts 1:5 - for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the
  Holy Spirit not many days from now. (ESV)

One God, Three Persons: Father, Son and Holy Spirit. AMEN!

Jesus saving me - This is evidence the Holy Spirit is a Person, and evidence
to me that the Holy Spirit is God.

• Astral Projection Pt. 2 // Bodacious Blog

  I do not actually know what 'astral projection is'. I just googled for
  whatever I could find to describe it.

  This was something for sure, it was a conversation in my sleep, accompanied
  by dreams.

  The first incident was a blue 'light body' which I have felt up until this
  day, and after that, I have felt like the 'veil' has been very thin and I
  have had spiritual experiences, and noticing things spiritually.

  This was not brought on by meditation or anything, but it happened 'to' me.

  I prayed to God consecrating this part of my life to Jesus and the Holy
  Spirit.

  And I also prayed that I would not have any out of body experiences like
  this.

  I Timothy 2:6 - who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the
  testimony given at the proper time. (ESV)

God never lies:

  Titus 1:1-3 - Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for
  the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth,
  which accords with godliness, in hope of eternal life, which God, who never
  lies, promised before the ages began and at the proper time manifested in
  his word through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the
  command of God our Savior;

  1 John 2:21 - I write to you, not because you do not know the truth, but
  because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth. (ESV)

35.2. Faith has a quantity, and faith receives from God / walks into what He has
promised

  Luke 17:5 - The apostles said to the Lord, Increase our faith!

  II Corinthians 10:15 - We do not boast beyond limit in the labors of
  others. But our hope is that as your faith increases, our area of influence
  among you may be greatly enlarged,

  Luke 7:8-9 - For I too am a man set under authority, with soldiers under
  me: and I say to one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes;
  and to my servant, Do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard these things,
  he marveled at him, and turning to the crowd that followed him, said, I
  tell you, not even in Israel have I found such faith. (ESV)

Since Faith is proportional to Love for God, which is proportional to obeying
God, the following can be understood.

  James 1:12 - Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when
  he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has
  promised to those who love him.

  James 2:5 - Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are
  poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he
  has promised to those who love him?

A person with true faith in God walks into the truth because true faith has
eyes fixed on Jesus and goes to Jesus as it obeys the will of God.

35.2.1. Faith has substance, and a quantity, usually drawn out over time

  Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence
  of things not seen. (KJV)

Now while we may have faith, hoping, even having a conviction for something
which God may not have directly told us about (such as a marriage),
ultimately God may approve or deny it:

  Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen. (ESV)

We should put our faith in God, and in God's promises:

  Mark 11:22 - And Jesus answered them, Have faith in God.

  Matthew 17:20 - He said to them, Because of your little faith. For truly, I
  say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to
  this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will
  be impossible for you. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 3:8 - I know your works. Behold, I have set before you
  an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little
  power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name. Behold, I
  will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and
  are not, but lie-behold, I will make them come and bow down before your
  feet and they will learn that I have loved you. Because you have kept my
  word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that
  is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth.

I think faith in God is like casting a net to receive something from God, and
obedience to God is like catching and riding a wave. because it's by God's
power.

If you want to catch something big then you need a lot of faith.

Faith receives salvation, and salvation is the gift which is received through
faith. Faith is something which a person must have to receive the free gift.
The onus is on us to receive the free gift.

We must draw near to God through Jesus.

  Hebrews 7:25 - Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who
  draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession
  for them. (ESV)

At it's most basic form repentance (metanoia) means a person changes their
mind to believe and trust and have a heart of obedience - accepting of the
will of God. To repent means stop distrusting and start trusting God.

We have believe Jesus and to trust Jesus. When Jesus says He is the Son of
God, we must believe it because we trust Him. Likewise when He commands us to
repent from sinning we should agree with Jesus and be obedient:

  John 16:8-9 - And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin
  and righteousness and judgment: concerning sin, because they do not believe
  in me; (ESV)

We need to heed Jesus' warning that we need to change our minds or perish. We
have to stop believing falsehood and believe the truth, believe/trust Jesus
and Jesus' words:

  Luke 13:3 - No, I tell you; but unless you repent (3340. metanoeó), you
  will all likewise perish. (ESV)

We must repent (change our minds, turning from our wicked ways, and turn to
God) and obey God and it typically starts with changing our beliefs and most
importantly believing Jesus Christ is who He says He is - Son of God, Messiah
- but also believing what He achieved on our behalf with His death, burial
and resurrection, and trusting the Word of God and obeying Him.

God has said many things, about his statutes and about how we should listen
to Jesus.

I think repentance from sin (from the heart turning from sin) out of
obedience to God is still approaching Jesus because Jesus fulfilled the law
but when presented with the gospel message, we are to accept Jesus and submit
to God's righteousness.

So we should humble ourselves and obey God's commandments (not out of pride,
but out of authentic faith with God, being accountable to God, in secret).

For example, abstaining from partaking in stealing, or adultery and being
faithful to God, even if you lose friends over it. This type of obeying God's
commandments is nothing to do with pride or self-exultation or
self-righteousness and everything to do with being faithful to God and
humbling oneself to God.

Trying to turn from sin in truth and reality.

  2 Chronicles 7:14 - if my people who are called by my name humble
  themselves, and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then
  I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 18:3 - and said, Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become
  like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. (ESV)

It says unless you turn - The onus is on you.

  Matthew 5:20 - For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of
  the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
  (ESV)

It says unless your righteousness.

Faith in Jesus probably qualifies a person to 'enter' the Kingdom of Heaven.

Also, following the law by faith in truth I think qualifies a person to enter
the Kingdom of Heaven. Also the Kingdom of Heaven, I think is from Heaven to
Earth.

  II Corinthians 5:21 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin,
  so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. (ESV)

  Titus 3:7 - so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs
  according to the hope of eternal life.

Through faith a person is saved (the onus is on us to receive)

Salvation is the gift. Works can be dead works when they're not done in
faith. Therefore works don't save.

  Ephesians 2:8-9 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this
  is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so
  that no one may boast. (ESV)

A person must be at least willing to do His will - obedience is at the
essence of faith:

  John 7:17 - If anyone is willing to do His will, he will know of the
  teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from Myself.

35.2.2. The work of faith

• love, faith, service and patient endurance are all considered works

  Revelation of John 2:19 - I know your works, your love and faith and
  service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first.

Abraham's obedience is a work of faith.

  Hebrews 11:8 - By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a
  place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not
  knowing where he was going. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

Work substantiates faith because it is the act of receiving from God.

A work of faith could indeed be following the law in faith (as opposed to
following the law by works).

For example, keeping your integrity, remaining faithful to God and not lying
to God.

Patient endurance is a 'work of faith'. It may involve waiting on God to act:

  Revelation of John 3:8 - I know your works. Behold, I have set before you
  an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little
  power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name. Behold, I
  will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and
  are not, but lie-behold, I will make them come and bow down before your
  feet and they will learn that I have loved you. Because you have kept my
  word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that
  is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth.

35.2.3. Justified by faith in Jesus which includes walking by faith / works of
faith (works not necessarily works of the law)

So if a person believes some part of God's word and in believing they obey
then that is 'walking by faith'.

If a person actually believes then they will walk by that belief.

  James 2:22-26 - You see that faith was active along with his works, and
  faith was completed by his works; and the Scripture was fulfilled that
  says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness-and
  he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works
  and not by faith alone. And in the same way was not also Rahab the
  prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent
  them out by another way? For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so
  also faith apart from works is dead. (ESV)

This is not a work of the law, but it is a work of faith: "when she received
the messengers and sent them out by another way"

  James 2:26 - For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith
  apart from works is dead.

  Romans 3:28-31 - For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from
  works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of
  Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one. He will justify the
  circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then
  overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold
  the law. (ESV)

The law is not overthrown but it is upheld.

35.2.4. Faith receives - it believes, trusts and obeys

Sermon
youtube.com: Faith Trusts the God Who Rewards

Abraham believed and obeyed to receive:

  Hebrews 11:8 - By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a
  place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not
  knowing where he was going. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:13 - These all died in faith, not having received the things
  promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having
  acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth.

Because we love and obey God, loving and obeying Jesus, we receive from God
when we ask in faith:

  I John 3:22 - and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep his
  commandments and do what pleases him. (ESV)

Disbelief causes disobedience. Disbelief caused the Israelites to not walk in
obedience:

  Hebrews 3:16-19 - For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not
  all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for
  forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the
  wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest,
  but to those who were disobedient? So we see that they were unable to enter
  because of unbelief. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:13 - though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and
  insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in
  unbelief, (ESV)

Doubt is very contrary to faith, even contrary to obedient faith. Ask in
obedient faith without any doubting:

  James 1:6-7 - But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who
  doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For
  that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;
  (ESV)

I really think that God is faithful and He's above all things, and we just
need to receive the saving gospel message and when trial, tribulation, or the
testing of your faith happens, we have to hold fast to the truth and
persevere with it.

youtube.com: Petra - Beyond Belief @time: 21 min 35 sec
Don't you ever get mad at God? Mad at God? Sure, sometimes, but I still trust
Him. How? I don't know. I just do. That's what faith is.

I think James is saying that without holding fast to the word of God (the
truth) and allowing oneself to be influenced and our lives changed, and to be
saved by it, we are not transformed, and to be not transformed by the word of
God is a big issue because it concerns the salvation of our souls:

  James 1:21-24 - Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness
  and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your
  souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving
  yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is
  like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. For he looks
  at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. (ESV)

Disbelief causes disobedience. Disbelief caused the Israelites to not walk in
obedience:

  Hebrews 3:16-19 - For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not
  all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for
  forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the
  wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest,
  but to those who were disobedient? So we see that they were unable to enter
  because of unbelief. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:13 - though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and
  insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in
  unbelief, (ESV)

Doubt is very contrary to faith, even contrary to obedient faith. Ask in
obedient faith without any doubting:

  James 1:6-7 - But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who
  doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For
  that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;
  (ESV)

Abraham had trust. Abraham had obedience. I believe that trust is very
important to have for faith to be counted as righteousness:

  Romans 4:20-22 - No distrust (apistia) made him waver concerning the
  promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,
  fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why
  his faith was counted to him as righteousness. (ESV)

Peter's demonstration of obedient faith. Doubt inhibits faith:

  Matthew 14:28-31 - And Peter answered him, Lord, if it is you, command me
  to come to you on the water. He said, Come. So Peter got out of the boat
  and walked on the water and came to Jesus. But when he saw the wind, he was
  afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out, Lord, save me. Jesus
  immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying to him, O you
  of little faith, why did you doubt? (ESV)

We receive the promised Spirit through faith:

  Galatians 3:14 - so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come
  to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through
  faith. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:2 - Let me ask you only this: Did you receive the Spirit by
  works of the law or by hearing with faith? (ESV)

35.2.5. Love gives

  I John 3:16 - By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and
  we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. (ESV)

  John 15:13 - Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his
  life for his friends. (ESV)

  Galatians 1:4 - who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the
  present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, (ESV)

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

35.2.6. Her faith saved her / is forgiven because she loved much - her love
gave substance to her faith

Her love is a work of faith.

  Luke 7:47-50 - Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are
  forgiven-for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.
  And he said to her, Your sins are forgiven. Then those who were at table
  with him began to say among themselves, Who is this, who even forgives
  sins? And he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you; go in peace.
  (ESV)

I also currently believe that one's response to forgiveness must be like the
woman Jesus mentions in Luke 7:47 - with a proprotional love for Jesus.

36. Worldly precepts generally contradict the Truth and don't help to stop sin

  Colossians 2:20-23 - If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits of
  the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit to
  regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch (referring to things
  that all perish as they are used)—according to human precepts and
  teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made
  religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value
  in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. (ESV)

I think that choosing a relationship Biblically is contrary to worldly
precepts:

  Mark 7:7-9 in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the
  commandments of men. You leave the commandment of God and hold to the
  tradition of men. And he said to them, You have a fine way of rejecting the
  commandment of God in order to establish your tradition!

  James 4:4 - You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the
  world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the
  world makes himself an enemy of God. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:31-33 - Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat?
  or What shall we drink? or What shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after
  all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all.
  But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these
  things will be added to you.

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness
  of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. (ESV)

  I John 5:19 - We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the
  power of the evil one. (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:2 - in which you once walked, following the course of this
  world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now
  at work in the sons of disobedience— (ESV)

37. Who will enter Heaven? Only the ones who do the will of Father God

  Matthew 7:21-23 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in
  your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in
  your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew you; depart from
  me, you workers of lawlessness. (ESV)

OBEDIENCE!

In Spyridon's words, "Paradise will not be filled with sinless people - it
will be filled with people who have repented."

Sermon
youtube.com: DESPITE REPEATED SINS, DO NOT DESPAIR

We must be repent from sinful practices:

  I John 3:3-7 - And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is
  pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness;
  sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him
  there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who
  keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no
  one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is
  righteous. (ESV)

We must forgive each other:

  Colossians 3:13 - bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint
  against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you
  also must forgive. (ESV)

We must love our brother and our sister in Christ. It's imperative that we
follow Jesus Christ's teachings and commandments:

  I John 4:20-21 - If anyone says, I love God, and hates his brother, he is a
  liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God
  whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves
  God must also love his brother. (ESV)

I confess that Jesus is the Son of God:

  I John 4:15 - Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in
  him, and he in God. (ESV)

It's imperative that as we go ahead, we must abide in the teaching of Christ,
or we won't have God (Jehovah God), and God is love and love comes from God,
so we need to abide in Christ's teachings, by belief and by obedience. For
example, in Mark 10:18, Jesus affirmed that God is Good. Therefore when we
read this, we must also be sanctified by this truth, affirming and coming
into agreement that God is Good. Also, Jesus commanded us to love one another
as He loved us John 13:34-35:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

Knowing God means loving as Jesus loved us:

  I John 4:6-7 - We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is
  not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and
  the spirit of error. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from
  God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

In other words, the real Christians are the ones who know that we must trust
Jesus and obey Jesus' commandments out of thankful love for Jesus as we also
believe Jesus, and believe God sent Him:

  I John 5:1-5 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and
  obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his
  commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has
  been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has
  overcome the world—our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the
  one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? (ESV)

And we should be building each other up, helping each other attain unity of
faith and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God:

  Ephesians 4:12-13 - to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for
  building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the
  faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the
  measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, (ESV)

To get to know Jesus, we must obey His commandments:

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

38. Sermon on the mount

38.1. Those who mourn will be comforted

  Matthew 5:4 - Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.

38.2. The earth may be inherited

  Matthew 5:5 - Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.

38.3. Those who hunger and thirst for righteousness will be satisfied

  Matthew 5:6 - Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness,
  for they shall be satisfied.

38.4. The merciful shall receive mercy

  Matthew 5:7 - Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.

  Romans 9:15-16 - For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have
  mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then it
  depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy. (ESV)

  James 4:6 - But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the
  proud, but gives grace to the humble. (ESV)

38.5. Without holiness, no-one will see the Lord

  Matthew 5:8 - Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.

38.6. The peacemakers shall be called sons of God

  Matthew 5:9 - Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of
  God.

Jesus didn't come to bring peace on earth, but division:

  Luke 12:51 - Do you think that I have come to give peace on earth? No, I
  tell you, but rather division. (ESV)

The peace Jesus brings is peace in Christ:

  John 16:33 - I have said these things to you, that in me you may have
  peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have
  overcome the world. (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:14-16 - For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one
  and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by
  abolishing the law of commandments and ordinances, that he might create in
  himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace, and might
  reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the
  hostility. (ESV)

  Romans 8:6 - To set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on
  the Spirit is life and peace. (ESV)

  I Peter 5:14 - Greet one another with the kiss of love. Peace to all of you
  who are in Christ. (ESV)

  Philippians 4:9 - What you have learned and received and heard and *seen in
  me — practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. (ESV)

  Philemon 1:3 - Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord
  Jesus Christ. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 5:12-13 - We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor
  among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you, and to esteem them
  very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
  (ESV)

  Colossians 1:2 - To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae:
  Grace to you and peace from God our Father. (ESV)

  Philippians 4:7 - And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding,
  will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

  Colossians 1:21-22 - And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind,
  doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death,
  in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him,
  (ESV)

  II Timothy 2:22 - Now flee from youthful lusts and pursue righteousness,
  faith, love and peace, with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart.
  (NASB)

38.7. Christian persecution is for abiding in Jesus through the cross

Christian persecution happens for obeying Jesus' commandments, through being
a servant of Jesus, for being found in Jesus:

  Matthew 5:10 - Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness'
  sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. (ESV)

Christian persecution is not for suffering as an evildoer:

  I Peter 4:15 - But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an
  evildoer or as a meddler. (ESV)

Christian persecution happens because a person is actually serving Jesus
(i.e. following His commandments):

  John 15:20 - Remember the word that I said to you: A servant is not greater
  than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If
  they kept my word, they will also keep yours. (ESV)

Worldly people (including worldly Christians) persecute those who are walking
in the Spirit:

  Galatians 4:29 - But just as at that time he who was born according to the
  flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is
  now. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:12 - Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for
  so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. (ESV)

The persecution is for the cross of Christ - the offense of the cross:

  Galatians 6:12 - It is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh
  who would force you to be circumcised, and only in order that they may not
  be persecuted for the cross of Christ. (ESV)

38.7.1. There are huge rewards for following Jesus in this life and the one
after

In other words, by giving up your present life for being a disciple of Jesus,
for obeying Jesus and for the sake of His gospel, we are rewarded in this
life and the one after:

  Mark 10:29-30 - Jesus said, Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has
  left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands,
  for my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold now in
  this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and
  lands, with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life. (ESV)

But it also makes me think that I really wish I had tried to follow Jesus
years ago, especially before I was born-again:

  John 20:29 - Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me?
  Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. (ESV)

And also, I can't really claim "Christian persecution", I don't think. People
have generally respected me as a Christian. Also, I live in New Zealand. I've
had it quite good, to be honest.

38.7.2. We bless back and endure

  I Corinthians 4:12 - and we labor, working with our own hands. When
  reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we endure; (ESV)

  II Thessalonians 1:4 - Therefore we ourselves boast about you in the
  churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions
  and in the afflictions that you are enduring. (ESV)

  Matthew 13:21 - yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and
  when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately
  he falls away. (ESV)

39. The Kingdom of God

After I got born-again I started getting dreams with themes of the 'Kingdom
of God', and also through interactions I began having with people, while I
was pursuing following Jesus' commandments, etc. So my 'evidence' is a
personal conviction that comes through faith in Jesus which has been working.

That's how I interpret how the following passage says that the Kingdom of God
is not coming with signs to be observed:

  Luke 17:20-21 - Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would
  come, he answered them, The kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be
  observed, nor will they say, Look, here it is! or There! for behold, the
  kingdom of God is in the midst of you.

Also, entering the kingdom of God is entering into righteousness and peace
and joy in the Holy Spirit:

  Romans 14:17-20 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever
  thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us
  pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Do not, for the sake
  of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is
  wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. (ESV)

Those in the Kingdom of God are serving Christ. As we serve Christ, we are
approved by God:

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

  II Timothy 2:15 - Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved,
  a worker who has no need to be ashamed, rightly handling the word of truth.
  (ESV)

Inheriting the Kingdom, however, appears to be reigning with Christ:

  Daniel 7:18 - But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and
  possess the kingdom forever, forever and ever. (ESV)

  Revelation 2:26-28 - The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the
  end, to him I will give authority over the nations, and he will rule them
  with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I
  myself have received authority from my Father. And I will give him the
  morning star. (ESV)

As we walk in the light, as He is in the light, that is in the Truth, walking
in, believing, professing and obeying Jesus Christ in Truth, the blood of
Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin:

  I John 1:6-7 - If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in
  darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the
  light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the
  blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. (ESV)

We are the light of the world. Yes, we must do good:

  Matthew 5:14-20 - You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill
  cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but
  on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let
  your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and
  give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Do not think that I have come
  to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to
  fulfill them. For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away,
  not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
  Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and
  teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of
  heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the
  kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that
  of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.

We must do good, and behave like the children of God, or we will not enter
the Kingdom:

  I John 3:10 - By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who
  are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is
  not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. (ESV)

  I John 3:7 - Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. (ESV)

We need to perform our salvation in obedience to God:

  Philippians 2:12 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out
  (G2716 katergazomai) your own salvation with fear and trembling, (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Work Out What Christ Has Won: The Christian Life as Gift and
Duty

  James 2:26 - For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith
  apart from works is dead. (ESV)

39.1. Righteousness for entering the kingdom

We get our life from God as we hold our faith in Jesus Christ; that is
believing, trusting, cleaving to, obeying Jesus Christ.

Even from the believer's perspective, we have already won:

  1 John 4:4 - Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for
  he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. (ESV)

  Romans 8:37 - No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through
  him who loved us.

We live by our faith in Jesus Christ - our trust in God has the visible
evidence of obeying His commandments - and we are not the ones to shrink back
and to stop obeying but to remain obedient.

  Hebrews 10:37-39 - For, Yet a little while, and the coming one will come
  and will not delay; but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he
  shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who
  shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve
  their souls. (ESV)

And is in line with what Jesus has said:

  Luke 9:62 - Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand to the plow and
  looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. (ESV)

The one who relies on the law for their life hopes to get their life from
continuing to abide by the law, but if they sin it will produce for them
death:

  Romans 7:10 - The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to
  me. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:21 - Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly
  not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness
  would indeed be by the law. (ESV)

The trouble with trying to get our life and justification through Mosaic law
compliance is that is that only Jesus did that perfectly, but that also means
that if Jesus is our Master, then Jesus can save us.

We should hold our faith in Jesus, do our best with regards to God's
precepts, being accountable to Jesus, and not feel condemned by the law
because we are following Jesus:

We have confidence when we keep His commandments, believing in the name of
God's Son Jesus Christ and loving one another and our heart doesn't condemn
us:

  I John 3:21-24 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment,
  that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another,
  just as he has commanded us. Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him,
  and he in them. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit
  whom he has given us. (ESV)

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of faith:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

And we also should at the same time not encourage the breaking of the Mosaic
law.

biblehub.com: Greek Concordance: ζήσεται {zesetai} – 9 Occurrences

This word zēsetai I think means to consider it the way we live in order for
us to live. So therefore, with regards to the law, a person who lives by the
law actually does it. But according to the Apostle Paul, the commandment
which promised life proved to be death to him, Paul. I believe that's because
the law is against sin, and Paul had sin:

  Galatians 3:12 - But the law is not of faith, rather The one who does them
  shall live by (zēsetai en) them. (ESV)

  Romans 10:5 - For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the
  law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. (ESV)

  Leviticus 18:5 - You shall therefore keep my statutes and my rules; if a
  person does them, he shall live by them: I am the LORD. (ESV)

  Ezekiel 20:11 - I gave them my statutes and made known to them my rules, by
  which, if a person does them, he shall live. (ESV)

OK, so justification by Mosaic law is not of 'faith' but is of 'doing it',
and to try to meet the law for salvation outside of Christ is to seek
'salvation by ones own works' which not possible. Yet the law of Christ is of
faith. But if a person 'does' the law, they will live. Indeed, it's a blessed
way to live so long as you are compliant. Law works against you if you sin.
So life comes when a person actually 'does' what is in the law and does not
sin. But there is no atonement for sin without shedding of blood. It
certainly seems to me that doing the law is a good thing but we can't rely on
it to perpetually sustain our life or to save us. We have to die to the law
and live to Christ and not shrink back from faith in Jesus Christ.

I want to add this section again for clarification:

youtube.com: Is repentance an aspect of faith, or is repentance a good work?
{@ligonier} @time: 3 min 34 sec

PARSONS: It is important that we distinguish between an act and 'works'. The
word "work" or "works" in the New Testament is language that the Apostle Paul
uses and others use in reference to things that we do in order to earn our
salvation, things that we do that sort of either initiate with us, begin with
us, things that we do to earn our salvation. (That language of work or works
is different than something we do.)

We do repent, we do believe, but we have to understand why we believe and why
we repent. It's Romans 2:4, I believe, that Paul says, "Don't you know that
it's the kindness of God that's meant to lead you to repentance?" So, do we
repent? Yes. Is it something we do? Is it an act? Yes. Is it a work,
technically? No, it is something that God by His kindness leads us to, just
as He grants us the gift of faith according to Ephesians 2:8-10. The entirety
of the believer's conversion and coming to the Lord, of course, is all of
grace.

LAWSON: And repentance is a sovereign gift that God gives us as well. He
gives both saving faith and repentance. That's why God is the author of our
salvation. He provides everything. All we provide, as you said, is the sin
that we hold in our hands that was laid upon Christ.

The law is not the sum of God. God is not merely the law:

  Galatians 2:19 - For through the law I died to the law, so that I might
  live to God. (ESV)

The Word was God:

  John 1:1-4 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made
  through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him
  was life, and the life was the light of men. (ESV)

  John 1:17-18 - For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came
  through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the
  Father's side, he has made him known. (ESV)

So even if a person is observing and teaching others to observe the law, at
the end of the day our faith in Jesus Christ is more important:

  Romans 3:28-29 - For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from
  works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of
  Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, (ESV)

Making Jesus Christ our Master does not mean we say the law is evil, and we
still endeavour to follow the law to the measure we observe without it
condemning us, bearing one another's burdens, behaving in accordance with
sound doctrine while holding our faith in Jesus:

  Galatians 3:12 - But the law is not of faith, rather The one who does them
  shall live by them. (ESV)

Where Galatians 3:12 says that the law is not of faith, it is talking about
the Mosaic law, not Christ's law. When we talk about the law of Christ, that
law is a law where people who hold faith may be justified while obeying
Jesus. If a person holds faith in Jesus while also observing and doing the
Mosaic law, that is excellent. If a person holds faith in Jesus Christ
without caring much about the Mosaic law, serving Jesus they are acceptable
to God. Faith always involves believing God. Faith always involves obedience
to Jesus as Jesus works in us and for us. Whenever we believe Jesus we have
obeyed Him. And whenever we disobey Jesus we have disobeyed Him.

Faith and obedience are not mutually exclusive but they are mutually
inclusive:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

When we obey His commandments we have obeyed Him. It's all obedience, and
it's all belief. Even belief is obedience. So obedient faith is still faith
and a person can be obedient to God even with regards to Mosaic law while
being obedient to Jesus and placing faith in Jesus for our justification.
Jesus did the work that we may be justified by faith in Him, and that
includes the adherent of the law and the Gentiles. We believe that we are
justified by faith in Him thanks to His perfect obedience but we must obey
Jesus to see life. If a person is totally disobedient to Jesus then they
haven't believed Him. It doesn't help in the slightest bit to be disobedient
to Jesus. Obedience is an intrinsic part of faith:

  Romans 3:26-29 - It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so
  that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus.
  Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By
  a law of works? No, but by the law of faith. For we hold that one is
  justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews
  only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, (ESV)

God's already spoken and given commandments. If we want to obey God then we
can listen by reading the Holy Bible to see what God has already spoken:

  Luke 16:24-31 - And he called out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and
  send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for
  I am in anguish in this flame. But Abraham said, Child, remember that you
  in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad
  things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish. And besides
  all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that
  those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross
  from there to us. And he said, Then I beg you, father, to send him to my
  father's house— for I have five brothers—so that he may warn them, lest
  they also come into this place of torment. But Abraham said, They have
  Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them. And he said, No, father
  Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent. He
  said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the Prophets, neither will they
  be convinced if someone should rise from the dead. (ESV)

We must keep Jesus' commandments. We must keep God's commandments. It's not
just the red letters of the Bible which we should observe, believe, trust and
obey, but it's the 10 commandments, it's the great commandments. It's God's
words which are spirit. It's not just what we get in a dream or a vision that
we should observe and obey. Don't believe every spirit!

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us. (ESV)

Don't believe every spirit! The ones who write-off God's commandments found
the Bible are probably listening to a different spirit:

  I John 4:1 - Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to
  see whether they are from God, for many false prophets have gone out into
  the world. (ESV)

For our justification, Jesus does/has done the work for those who place their
faith in Him. But sanctification involves ongoing work in our lives:

  Romans 3:28 - For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works
  of the law. (ESV)

  Romans 3:24 - and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the
  redemption that is in Christ Jesus, (ESV)

We indeed want to aim to love God with our whole heart and our neighbour as
ourselves. This is a very important commandment even and especially for
Christians. Yes, at the end of the day we rely on Jesus' merit, but this is
about loving God. We must have a response of love for God:

  Luke 10:27-28 - And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all
  your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all
  your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And he said to him, You have
  answered correctly; do this, and you will live. (ESV)

But the goodness of God should lead us to repentance:

  Romans 2:4 - Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and
  forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead
  you to repentance? (ESV)

  Romans 7:9-13 - I was once alive apart from the law, but when the
  commandment came, sin came alive and I died. The very commandment that
  promised life proved to be death to me. For sin, seizing an opportunity
  through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me. So the law
  is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. Did that which
  is good, then, bring death to me? By no means! It was sin, producing death
  in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin, and
  through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. (ESV)

40. Entering and inheriting the kingdom

Through the power of God working in us as we hold faith in Jesus we may enter
the Kingdom of God:

Mathetes to Diognetus
This was not that He at all delighted in our sins, but that He simply endured
them; nor that He approved the time of working iniquity which then was, but
that He sought to form a mind conscious of righteousness, so that being
convinced in that time of our unworthiness of attaining life through our own
works, it should now, through the kindness of God, be vouchsafed to us; and
having made it manifest that in ourselves we were unable to enter into the
kingdom of God, we might through the power of God be made able.

  Luke 18:24-30 - Jesus, looking at him with sadness, said, How difficult it
  is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God! For it is easier
  for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to
  enter the kingdom of God. Those who heard it said, Then who can be saved
  (4982. sózó)? But he said, What is impossible with men is possible with
  God. And Peter said, See, we have left our homes and followed you. And he
  said to them, Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or
  wife or brothers or parents or children, for the sake of the kingdom of
  God, who will not receive many times more in this time, and in the age
  (165. aión) to come eternal (166. aiónios) life (2222. zóé). (ESV)

4982 sṓzō (from sōs, "safe, rescued")
properly, deliver out of danger and into safety; used principally of God
rescuing believers from the penalty and power of sin – and into His
provisions (safety).

  I Timothy 1:15-16 - The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full
  acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom
  I am the foremost. But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the
  foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to
  those who were to believe in him for eternal life. (ESV)

At the time we believe, the kingdom of God to us is a promise for which we
hope. When do you enter the kingdom of God? That's a good question. I think a
reasonable answer is: hold the faith, fight the good fight of faith, and be
the 'good soil':

  Acts 14:22 - strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to
  continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must
  enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  Matthew 13:18-21 - Hear then the parable of the sower: When anyone hears
  the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and
  snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along
  the path. As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears
  the word and immediately receives it with joy, yet he has no root in
  himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution
  arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away. (ESV)

We must be the good soil:

  Matthew 13:22-23 - As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who
  hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches
  choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. As for what was sown on good
  soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it. He indeed
  bears fruit and yields, in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in
  another thirty. (ESV)

Being the good soil is walking in the light, in the truth, the word of truth,
the gospel, and that bearing good fruit:

  I John 2:24-25 - Let what you heard from the beginning abide in you. If
  what you heard from the beginning abides in you, then you too will abide in
  the Son and in the Father. And this is the promise that he made to
  us—eternal life. (ESV)

  Romans 2:6-11 - He will render to each one according to his works: to those
  who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he
  will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey
  the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There
  will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the
  Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor and peace for everyone
  who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no
  partiality. (ESV)

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its
  end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God
  is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

We do need a lot of faith (faith, faithfulness, obedience) in God to inherit
the Kingdom of God:

  James 2:5 - Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are
  poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he
  has promised to those who love (25. agapaó) him? (ESV)

It's received as an inheritance by being found in Christ. We believe we have
it while we are found in Christ, and continue working it out, and we do need
repentance from sin to inherit it. We need to be believing and obedient to
Jesus. We need to be faithful to Jesus. We need to follow Jesus:

  Galatians 5:22-25 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
  patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control;
  against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus
  have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the
  Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. (ESV)

God is not dead. The inheritance we receive goes to Christ and those found in
Him who are practicing righteousness, presenting themselves to Christ as
alive from the dead.

We should disobey sin, and present ourselves to God as those alive from the
dead, and our members as instruments of righteousness to God. We should be
practicing righteousness, practicing love and holiness and truth:

  Romans 6:12-13 - Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that
  you obey its lusts, and do not go on presenting the members of your body to
  sin as instruments of unrighteousness; but present yourselves to God as
  those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness
  to God. (NASB)

Talk
youtube.com: How Do We Inherit the Kingdom? Galatians 5:19-21, Part 2

  Galatians 3:18 - For if the inheritance comes by the law, it no longer
  comes by promise; but God gave it to Abraham by a promise. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:29 - And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring,
  heirs according to promise. (ESV)

  Romans 4:13 - For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be
  heir of the world did not come through the law but through the
  righteousness of faith. (ESV)

  Galatians 4:6-7 - And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his
  Son into our hearts, crying, Abba! Father! So you are no longer a slave,
  but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. (ESV)

  Romans 9:6-8 - But it is not as though the word of God has failed. For not
  all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel, and not all are
  children of Abraham because they are his offspring, but Through Isaac shall
  your offspring be named. This means that it is not the children of the
  flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are
  counted as offspring. (ESV)

The Apostle Paul is with Jesus:

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

We must:

• Trust Father God, even for His promise for the one who puts their faith
in Jesus. We believe, and trust and obey Jesus:
• love our enemies
• do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return
• Believe Jesus and practice His commandments

  Luke 6:35 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing
  in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most
  High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. (ESV)

We're always seeking God's commendation:

  Galatians 1:10 - For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am
  I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not
  be a servant of Christ. (ESV)

The righteous live by their faith in Jesus - in belief to His promises and in
obedience to His commandments all of our life as Christians - hoping for
God's commendation.

  Matthew 4:4 - But he answered, It is written, Man shall not live by
  (zēsetai) bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.
  (ESV)

  Habakkuk 2:4 - Behold, his soul is puffed up; it is not upright within him,
  but the righteous shall live by his faith. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:38 - but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks
  back, my soul has no pleasure in him. (ESV)

  Galatians 2:20 - I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who
  live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I
  live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
  (ESV)

  Galatians 3:11 - Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by
  the law, for The righteous shall live by faith. (ESV)

We live to serve Jesus, believing we are justified by our faith in Him, and
not relying on our own righteousness, but we're still living by our faith in
God and in Jesus His Son. I think it's dangerous and not necessarily correct
to say, "I've been justified." We don't justify ourselves but we still have
faith to be justified by God as we hold faith in Jesus, and we don't
necessarily know when that justification has happened. It may have happened
when we first believed. I would suggest holding to that belief and going on
obeying Jesus like someone alive from the dead, serving God: I just want to
continue to live faithfully to Jesus for the rest of my life, as I also hold
faith that God is my justifier. I want God to justify me / have justified me,
as the way in which we are justified is that God does the justifing of the
one who has faith in Jesus. So the plan is to really be transformed by the
gospel and live in the truth of God's word, and seek God's commendation, and
live in the reality that God is for me and not against me as I hold faith in
Jesus. I'll give it my best shot:

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

It certainly appears that we're not supposed to simply do some righteous
thing and then lean on that. Rather we're supposed to 'live by' our faith, –
keep going, and not shrink back:

  Ezekiel 33:13 - Though I say to the righteous that he shall surely live,
  yet if he trusts in his righteousness and does injustice, none of his
  righteous deeds shall be remembered, but in his injustice that he has done
  he shall die. (ESV)

  Proverbs 4:18 - But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn,
  which shines brighter and brighter until full day. (ESV)

We should be growing in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ:

  II Peter 3:18 - But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior
  Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity.
  Amen. (ESV)

This is in line with what is written in Hebrews:

  Hebrews 10:37-39 - For, Yet a little while, and the coming one will come
  and will not delay; but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he
  shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who
  shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve
  their souls. (ESV)

And is in line with what Jesus has said:

  Luke 9:62 - Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand to the plow and
  looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. (ESV)

There's so much stuff to do in obedience to enter the kingdom… I feel
entirely unworthy.

At the same time, it's so simple and there is not a lot to do: just have a
trusting heart towards Jesus and receive it:

  Luke 18:17 - Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of
  God like a child shall not enter it. (ESV)

Firstly, it has been by grace because I asked God to save me, even when I was
very much stuck in sin. And I still feel as though I am approaching it and
haven't quite entered it (just being honest here), but I'm not turning back
from the plow.

Those who hunger and thirst for righteousness will be satisfied.

Please God, give me the righteousness required to enter the kingdom, and help
me to receive it as I live by faith in Jesus, trusting, believing and obeying
Him.

  Matthew 5:10 - Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness'
  sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:3-9 - Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom
  of heaven.

  Matthew 19:23-26 - And Jesus said to his disciples, Truly, I say to you,
  only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. Again
  I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than
  for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. When the disciples heard
  this, they were greatly astonished, saying, Who then can be saved? But
  Jesus looked at them and said, With man this is impossible, but with God
  all things are possible. (ESV)

It helps to clarify what we mean by inheriting the kingdom of God:

  Romans 14:17 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. (ESV)

Of course we cannot inherit righteousness, peace and joy without putting to
death what is earthly in us.

Interesting fact
Te reo Māori doesn't have any filthy words. Every language has capacity to
express anger, disgust or outrage. Te reo Māori is no different. There are no
single words that equate to English equivalents in terms of obscenity of
insult. As Alan pointed out, words for body parts, copulation etc are just
words — quite neutral.

Watch
youtube.com: John Piper - On Cussing

I still think though, that lying, slander and obscene talk can be done in any
language using neutral words, so we should not use language in a bad way.

Put to death the earthly in us:

• sexual immorality,
• impurity,
• passion,
• evil desire,
• covetousness, lying,
• slander,
• unrighteous anger,
• obscene talk

We must forgive one another:

  Colossians 3:5-13 - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. In these you too
  once walked, when you were living in them. But now you must put them all
  away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do
  not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its
  practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge
  after the image of its creator. Here there is not Greek and Jew,
  circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free; but Christ
  is all, and in all. Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved,
  compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one
  another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other;
  as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. (ESV)

40.1. Inheriting the Kingdom of God, even on earth

• Stop sinning - repent from sin
• Make Jesus #1 agape
• Obey Jesus
• Inherit the kingdom of God
• Righteousness, peace, joy in the Holy Spirit

  Matthew 6:30-33 - But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today
  is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe
  you, O you of little faith? Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall
  we eat? or What shall we drink? or What shall we wear? For the Gentiles
  seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need
  them all. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all
  these things will be added to you. (ESV)

  Romans 14:17 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

We must be actively keeping Jesus as our Pearl of Great Price:

  James 2:5 - Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are
  poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he
  has promised to those who love (25. agapōsin / agape loving) him? (ESV)

|  191        80       1473     27         3756 3588
|  Akousate   adelphoi mou      agapētoi   ouch ho
|  Ἀκούσατε , ἀδελφοί  μου      ἀγαπητοί . οὐχ  ὁ
|  Listen     brothers my       beloved    Not   -
|  V-AMA-2P   N-VMP    PPro-G1S Adj-VMP    Adv  Art-NMS
| 
|  2316  1586       3588 [e 4434     3588 [e 2889
|  Theos exelexato  tous    ptōchous tō      kosmō
|  Θεὸς  ἐξελέξατο  τοὺς    πτωχοὺς  τῷ      κόσμῳ
|   God   has chosen the     poor      -      in this world
|   N-NMS V-AIM-3S   Art-AMP Adj-AMP  Art-DMS N-DMS
|  
|   4145         1722 4102   2532 2818        3588
|   plousious    en   pistei kai  klēronomous tēs
|   πλουσίους    ἐν   πίστει καὶ  κληρονόμους τῆς
|   [to be] rich in   faith  and  heirs       of the
|   Adj-AMP      Prep N-DFS  Conj N-AMP       Art-GFS
|  
|   932       3739       1861        3588
|   basileias hēs        epēngeilato tois
|   βασιλείας ἧς         ἐπηγγείλατο τοῖς
|   kingdom   that       He promised to those
|   N-GFS     RelPro-GFS V-AIM-3S    Art-DMP
|  
|   25        846
|   agapōsin  auton
|   ἀγαπῶσιν  αὐτόν  ?
|   loving    Him
|   V-PPA-DMP PPro-AM3S

40.2. Jesus explains how we can go about seeking the Kingdom of God and His
righteousness - this is obedience (the type of faith we must have), not works!

Jesus has told us what we must do, and to obey Him is to follow Him, and be
led by Him.

Jesus says the following teachings which he outlines in Matthew 5-7 are
extremely important:

  Matthew 7:24-27 - Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them
  will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell,
  and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did
  not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears
  these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who
  built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and
  the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the
  fall of it. (ESV)

The followers of Paul the Apostle live by (walk by) faith; those are the
righteous ones. It's a lifestyle:

  Galatians 3:11 - Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by
  the law, for The righteous shall live by faith. (ESV)

40.2.1. Accept the free gift which is by grace and not of our own merit

In believing in Jesus, we are guaranteed an inheritance in heaven:

  Ephesians 1:13,14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

  I Peter 1:13 - Therefore, preparing your minds for action, and being
  sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you
  at the revelation of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

The inheritance is in heaven:

  I Peter 1:4 - to obtain an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled
  and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you, (ESV)

We work for the Lord while believing in Jesus:

  Colossians 3:23-25 - Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and
  not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as
  your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. For the wrongdoer will be
  paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality. (ESV)

So once again, we are actually instructed to work for God, but it's not wrong
under the right conditions:

  Hebrews 6:10 - For God is not so unjust as to overlook your work and the
  love that you showed for his sake in serving the saints, as you still do.
  (ESV)

All the Apostle Paul is saying here, I think is that in "working for God"
doesn't imply you have accepted a gift. But, yes, you can accept the gift
(believe in Jesus) and under that condition work for God:

  Romans 4:4 - Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift
  but as his due. (ESV)

We still really do need to accept the free gift! Actually, it's imperative,
no matter how much we've been attempting to work for God, that we accept the
free gift from God:

  Romans 4:5-8 - And to the one who does not work but trusts him who
  justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, just as David
  also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness
  apart from works: Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not
  count his sin. (ESV)

40.2.2. Love God - treasure God, believe in God, obey God, trust in God. Keep
His commandments and hold faith in His promises

  James 2:1-9 - My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our
  Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and
  fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing
  also comes in, and if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine
  clothing and say, You sit here in a good place, while you say to the poor
  man, You stand over there, or, Sit down at my feet, have you not then made
  distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen,
  my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to
  be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to those
  who love him? But you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich the
  ones who oppress you, and the ones who drag you into court? Are they not
  the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called? If you
  really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality,
  you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. (ESV)

40.2.3. Remain faithful to God and keep trusting Him. We need trust in Jesus as
we go through the trial

We must remain faithful to God:

  James 2:21-23 - Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he
  offered up his son Isaac on the altar? You see that faith was active along
  with his works, and faith was completed by his works; and the Scripture was
  fulfilled that says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as
  righteousness—and he was called a friend of God. (ESV)

We must not short-sightedly exchange our invaluable inheritance for immediate
relief as Esau did, and do our best to not allow bitterness to damage us
going through the fiery trial:

  Hebrews 12:15-17 - See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God;
  that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble, and by it many
  become defiled; that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who
  sold his birthright for a single meal. For you know that afterward, when he
  desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to
  repent, though he sought it with tears. (ESV)

Trust in God and His promises:

  Romans 4:20-22 - No distrust (apistia) made him waver concerning the
  promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,
  fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why
  his faith was counted to him as righteousness. (ESV)

oneplace.com why-the-believer-doubts-part-1-1-1172653.html: Why the Believer
Doubts, Part 1 {#1} - Listen to Grace to You with John MacArthur, Jul 1, 2024

Be assured in the heart of the promises of God:

  Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen. (ESV)

40.2.4. Love your enemies

We must be like children of God to enter the Kingdom. Children of God are
like their Father. So we must love our enemies:

  Matthew 5:44-48 - But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those
  who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven.
  For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on
  the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward
  do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet
  only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the
  Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly
  Father is perfect. (ESV)

40.2.5. Practice your righteousness for God's commendation

We must absolutely be faithful to God who sees in secret. Having an awareness
and a faith in God is very important for behaving as children of God:

  Matthew 6:1-4 - Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people
  in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your
  Father who is in heaven. Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet
  before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that
  they may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received
  their reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand
  know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret.
  And your Father who sees in secret will reward you. (ESV)

40.2.6. Will for God's will to be done

  Matthew 6:10 - Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. (ESV)

40.2.7. Do the will of God

We want to be children of God, so we must act like children of God:

  Matthew 7:21 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

We don't want to be children of the devil:

  John 8:44 - You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your
  father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to
  do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he
  speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
  (ESV)

40.2.8. Forgive everyone

I believe we need to be serving Christ to be led by the Spirit, and that
means forgiving everyone is important. Jesus commanded us to love one another
as He loved us.

To love your neighbour as yourself means forgiving them too, and remember
that Jesus forgave us. It also means to not take vengeance (Christ's law
includes not rendering evil for evil):

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

Jesus' commandments us to even love one another, anyone around you, with
selfless love:

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all
  people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

If we are servants of Christ then we are acceptable to God. Serving Christ,
loving our neighbour as ourselves, bearing one another's burdens, trying to
do no harm to our neighbour, we should have a good conscience before God and
men:

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

If you have trusting faith in God then you will walk according to the will of
God (walk the way Jesus Christ calls us to walk in obedience to Jesus, as a
response of love to God in the knowledge He loved us first). Led by the
Spirit = following Jesus.

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
  (ESV)

That's not working but it is walking and it is being obedient to Jesus. The
Israelites through the Red Sea were being led by the Spirit - they were not
working for God as they walked in obedience:

  Galatians 5:16-18 - But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify
  the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the
  Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are
  opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.
  But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.

  Matthew 6:8-15 - Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need
  before you ask him. Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be
  your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we
  also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but
  deliver us from evil. For if you forgive others their trespasses, your
  heavenly Father will also forgive you, but if you do not forgive others
  their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:12 - and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our
  debtors. (ESV)

Put to death the earthly in us:

• sexual immorality,
• impurity,
• passion,
• evil desire,
• covetousness, lying,
• slander,
• unrighteous anger,
• obscene talk

We must forgive one another:

  Colossians 3:5-13 - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. In these you too
  once walked, when you were living in them. But now you must put them all
  away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do
  not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its
  practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge
  after the image of its creator. Here there is not Greek and Jew,
  circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free; but Christ
  is all, and in all. Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved,
  compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one
  another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other;
  as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. (ESV)

40.3. Entering the kingdom

This really seems to be talking about walking out the faith, putting on
Christ, etc.:

  II Peter 1:5-11 - For this very reason, make every effort to supplement
  your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with
  self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with
  godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection
  with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep
  you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus
  Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is
  blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins.
  Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and
  election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall. For
  in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the
  eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. (ESV)

We must receive the kingdom of God like a child - like Father God's child.
Children easily trust, believe, follow and obey their parents - they also act
like their parents. We must receive the kingdom of God like a child of God:

  Luke 18:16-22 - But Jesus called them to him, saying, Let the children come
  to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.
  Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a
  child shall not enter it. And a ruler asked him, Good Teacher, what must I
  do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good?
  No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments: Do not commit
  adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor
  your father and mother. And he said, All these I have kept from my youth.
  When Jesus heard this, he said to him, One thing you still lack. Sell all
  that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in
  heaven; and come, follow me.

Like a child of God:

• behave like a child of God
• like a child takes after their parents
• trust like a child trusts their parents
• believe like a child believes their parents
• obey like a child obeys their parents
• follow like a child follows their parents

  Colossians 3:20 - Children, obey your parents in everything, for this
  pleases the Lord. (ESV)

The kingdom of God is all about serving Christ, and having righteousness,
peace and joy in the Holy Spirit:

  Romans 14:17-22 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever
  thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us
  pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Do not, for the sake
  of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is
  wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to
  eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble.
  The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one
  who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. (ESV)

40.3.1. Behave like a child of God, as a child takes after their parents

We must do good, and behave like the children of God, or we will not enter
the Kingdom:

  I John 3:10 - By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who
  are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is
  not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. (ESV)

  Luke 6:35 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing
  in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most
  High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Called to Bless Others

  Quote of John Piper
  Your life becomes a foretaste for others of your cherished future. But if
  your future that you cherish is grace coming to you at the revelation of
  Jesus Christ and that is your treasure, and that is your hope and that is
  your faith and that is your vision and what you hold onto and embrace, you
  cannot return evil for evil. You know why you cannot return evil for evil?
  (If that's where your heart is.) Because the cherished grace that's coming
  is that He's not going to return evil for evil to you. Then we cannot turn
  around and have a lifestyle of returning evil for evil or insulting for
  insulting, and therefore the point of saying it's a condition for that is
  simply this, "You must be born again." Therefore, it's a condition, not in
  the sense of earning anything but in the sense of bearing witness that
  you've fallen in love and live out of that confidence.

I believe this type of obedience, obedience to Jesus may come before or after
being born of the Spirit, and obedience to Jesus is a part of faith in Jesus.
If I obey Jesus when I'm feeling depressed and having a bad day myself,
that's fine. It most certainly still counts as love. In fact, it's more
blessed to give than to receive. The obedience is still done out of love for
Jesus and out of faith in Jesus.

40.3.2. Trust Jesus like a child trusts their parents

We abide in Jesus when He washes us. When the Holy Spirit washes us, the Holy
Spirit helps us to put sin to death:

  John 13:8 - Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered
  him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. (ESV)

Peter believed/received/obeyed/trusted like a child of God (he cooperated) to
let Jesus wash him but it was Jesus doing the work:

  John 13:9 - Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only but also my
  hands and my head! (ESV)

40.3.3. Follow Jesus as a child follows their parents

  John 10:26-29 - but you do not believe because you are not part of my
  flock. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give
  them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them
  out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all,
  and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. (ESV)

40.3.4. We must love Jesus and the other children of God

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me. (ESV)

  I John 5:1-2 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and
  obey his commandments. (ESV)

40.3.5. Have active faith in Jesus and trust in Him. This is the good news, the
gospel:

  John 3:16 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo) in him should not perish but have eternal
  life. (ESV)

Have faith in God and have faith in Jesus:

  John 14:1 - “Do not let your heart be troubled; believe (G4100 pisteuo) in
  God, believe (G4100 pisteuo) also in Me.

Pisteuo means to trust. Trust in God, trust also in God's Son Jesus:

  Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts (G4100 pisteuo)
  him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, (ESV)

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

  John 5:34 - Not that the testimony that I receive is from man, but I say
  these things so that you may be saved. (ESV)

  John 6:47 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life.
  (ESV)

  John 11:26 - and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do
  you believe this? (ESV)

40.3.6. We must be born-again

  John 3:3-5 - Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born again he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can
  a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's
  womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  John 1:12 - But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he
  gave the right to become children of God, (ESV)

It is the sovereign work of God to make someone born-again of the Spirit, but
the Apostles say the Holy Spirit is given to those who believe in / obey him:

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:14 - so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come
  to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through
  faith. (ESV)

  John 1:11-13 - He came to His own, and those who were His own did not
  receive Him. But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to
  become children of God, even to those who believe (G4100 pisteuo) in His
  name, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the
  will of man, but of God.

40.3.7. We must be born of God

I think being born of God might in some way mean being born of the will of
God:

  John 1:13 - who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of
  the will of man, but of God. (ESV)

40.3.8. We must be able to discern the will of God, and want to do it

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:10 - Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. (ESV)

40.3.9. We must do the will of God

Jesus has to be your Lord in reality, i.e. doing Father God's will:

  Matthew 7:21 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

We must be doing the will of God to not be under the law:

  Psalms 143:10 - Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your good
  Spirit lead me on level ground! (ESV)

  I John 2:17 - And the world is passing away along with its desires, but
  whoever does the will of God abides forever.

40.3.10. We must accept it as a child, and as a child of Father God

  Matthew 18:3 - and said, Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become
  like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.

40.3.11. We must serve people. We must give up our wealth for others' sake

  Matthew 19:23-24 - And Jesus said to his disciples, Truly, I say to you,
  only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. Again
  I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than
  for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  Mark 10:23-25 - And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, How
  difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
  And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said to them again,
  Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God! It is easier for
  a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter
  the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  Luke 18:24-25 - Jesus, looking at him with sadness, said, How difficult it
  is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God! For it is easier
  for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to
  enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

40.3.12. Even doing good and put to silence the ignorance of foolish people is
the will of God

Even doing good is important for entering the kingdom of heaven:

  I Peter 2:15 - For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should
  put to silence the ignorance of foolish people.

  Matthew 7:21 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

40.3.13. We must abide in Jesus through faith, then we have Jesus'
righteousness, but faith in Jesus progresses to obedience to Jesus, which is
doing the will of God

We may abide in Jesus, but we should still go about doing the will of God to
enter the kingdom of heaven:

  Matthew 5:20 - For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of
  the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 7:21 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

We abide in Jesus when He washes us. When the Holy Spirit washes us, the Holy
Spirit helps us to put sin to death:

  John 13:8 - Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered
  him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. (ESV)

Peter believed/received/obeyed/trusted like a child of God (he cooperated) to
let Jesus wash him but it was Jesus doing the work:

  John 13:9 - Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only but also my
  hands and my head! (ESV)

Jesus' servants (people who believe and obey Him) are found in him. We know
Christ by living in the pattern in which he lived. Jesus' servants are those
who have accepted Jesus to wash them, and they ought to then wash one
another:

  Psalms 34:22 - The LORD redeems the life of his servants; none of those who
  take refuge in him will be condemned. (ESV)

40.3.14. We must turn from sin

  Mark 9:47 - And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better
  for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be
  thrown into hell,

After being born-again we must reckon dead the 'old man', and put sin to
death.

Those in Christ Jesus have been set free from the law of sin and death, and
we should not succumb to sin.

  Romans 7:20 - Now if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who do it,
  but sin that dwells within me. (ESV)

  Romans 7:24-25 - Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body
  of death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself
  serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of
  sin. (ESV)

  Romans 8:5 - For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on
  the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set
  their minds on the things of the Spirit. (ESV)

  Romans 8:10 - But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of
  sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. (ESV)

  Romans 8:13 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if
  by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Free from Judgment, Fighting Sin, Full Assurance |

40.3.15. We must endure to enter the kingdom of God

  Acts 14:22 - strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to
  continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must
  enter the kingdom of God.

40.4. Salvation absolutely involves repenting from sin

Zacchaeus was repentant, and was saved through Jesus as he had the faith of
Abraham, but towards Jesus:

  Luke 19:1-10 - He entered Jericho and was passing through. And there was a
  man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich. And he was
  seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not,
  because he was small of stature. So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a
  sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way. And when Jesus
  came to the place, he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, hurry and come
  down, for I must stay at your house today. So he hurried and came down and
  received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all grumbled, He has gone
  in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said
  to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if
  I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said
  to him, Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of
  Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. (ESV)

40.5. Inheriting the kingdom (being an Heir of the Kingdom)

We must be gifted redemption. God washes/purifies us just as He justifies us,
so that in continuing to trust in Him, we may become heirs of the Kingdom.
We're graciously cleaned up by God in order to serve God and become fellow
heirs as we suffer with Christ for righteousness-sake as we are obedient to
God:

  I Corinthians 6:11 - And such were some of you. But you were washed, you
  were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ
  and by the Spirit of our God. (ESV)

  Titus 3:4-7 - But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior
  appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness,
  but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal
  of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ
  our Savior, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs
  according to the hope of eternal life. (ESV)

Yes we must serve God, being a slave to righteousness, even practicing
righteousness (God cleans us so we can do this), and we love (agape treasure
Him and His words):

  James 2:5 - Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are
  poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he
  has promised to those who love (25. agapaó) him? (ESV)

  Romans 8:16-17 - The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we
  are children of God, and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow
  heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be
  glorified with him. (ESV)

40.5.1. We must be born-again

  I Corinthians 15:50 - I tell you this, brothers: flesh and blood cannot
  inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the
  imperishable. (ESV)

40.5.2. Made alive in Christ

  Ephesians 2:1 - And you were dead in the trespasses and sins (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:4-5 - But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love
  with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us
  alive together with Christ—by grace you have been saved— (ESV)

40.5.3. We must repent and be sanctified - it's for our own good

youtube.com: Practicing Sin Destroys the Soul: Galatians 5:19-21, Part 1

This is not an exhaustive list:

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

But only the ones who are truly remorseful:

  I Corinthians 6:9-10 - Do you not know that the unrighteous will not
  inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually
  immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
  nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers
  will inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

The sexually immoral, impure, the covetous, the idolaters, have no
inheritance in the kingdom of God - so much for 'imputed' righteousness
alone. We need to be transformed by the gospel:

  Ephesians 5:5 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually
  immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has no
  inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. (ESV)

An adequate reading of the following which makes sense to me is that being
found in Jesus, we have a righteousness which does indeed belong to us but it
belongs also to Jesus who we are found in. The righteousness which we have in
Jesus doesn't come from the law but through faith in Jesus, depending on
faith in Jesus. In other words, the righteousness is not our own apart from
Jesus, but the righteousness still belongs to us if it is the righteousness
of faith in Jesus, us being found in Jesus. Our righteousness being found in
Jesus doesn't make it self-righteousness to obey God's commandments:

  Philippians 3:9 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
  that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the
  righteousness from God that depends on faith— (ESV)

Flock = Jesus' followers. God wants to give Jesus' followers the kingdom, but
we have to stop serving sin and repent to serve God through Jesus:

  Luke 12:30-32 - For all the nations of the world seek after these things,
  and your Father knows that you need them. Instead, seek his kingdom, and
  these things will be added to you. Fear not, little flock, for it is your
  Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. (ESV)

We want to walk in a worthy manner, bearing fruit in good work:

  Colossians 1:10-14 - so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully
  pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the
  knowledge of God. May you be strengthened with all power, according to his
  glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to
  the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints
  in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred
  us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the
  forgiveness of sins. (ESV)

40.5.4. We must be a good and faithful servant

  Matthew 25:31-34 - When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the
  angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will
  be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another
  as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will place the
  sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. Then the King will say to
  those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the
  kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.

40.5.5. We must be servants

  Colossians 3:23-24 - Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and
  not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as
  your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. (ESV)

  Matthew 25:35-46 - For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and
  you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and
  you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came
  to me. Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see
  you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see
  you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And when did we
  see you sick or in prison and visit you? And the King will answer them,
  Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my
  brothers, you did it to me. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart
  from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his
  angels. For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you
  gave me no drink, I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and
  you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me. Then
  they also will answer, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty
  or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to you?
  Then he will answer them, saying, Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it
  to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. And these will go
  away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.

40.5.6. We must keep conquer (in our own lives) evil and sin, keeping Jesus'
works, keeping our faith in Jesus

Our work for God is not in vain, and it's all grace:

  I Corinthians 15:58 - Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast,
  immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the
  Lord your labor is not in vain. (ESV)

All of this is grace. Our hope is on the grace that is brought to us as we
hold our faith in Jesus - it's all grace. Obedience to Jesus doesn't make it
no longer grace:

  I Peter 1:13 - Therefore, preparing your minds for action, and being
  sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you
  at the revelation of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

Realise that Jesus has overcome the world, and while we are in Him, we
ourselves become overcomers:

  John 16:33 - I have said these things to you, that in me you may have
  peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have
  overcome the world. (ESV)

Every person who has been born of God overcomes the world:

  I John 5:4-5 - For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world.
  And this is the victory that has overcome the world—our faith. Who is it
  that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son
  of God? (ESV)

We must overcome evil with good:

  Romans 12:21 - Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
  (ESV)

  II Peter 2:20 - For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the
  world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are
  again entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for
  them than the first. (ESV)

We must overcome the evil one:

  I John 2:13-14 - I am writing to you, fathers, because you know him who is
  from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have
  overcome the evil one. I write to you, children, because you know the
  Father. I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the
  beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word
  of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 3:12 - The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in
  the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him
  the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem,
  which comes down from my God out of heaven, and my own new name. (ESV)

The gospel of the Kingdom of God (God's reign on earth):

  Revelation of John 11:15 - Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and
  there were loud voices in heaven, saying, The kingdom of the world has
  become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign
  forever and ever. (ESV)

If we keep Jesus' works then we receive authority over the nations (obvious
bonuses for obedience to Jesus' commandments, and it's not easy):

  Revelation of John 2:26 - The one who conquers and who keeps my works until
  the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, (ESV)

  II Timothy 2:12-13 - if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny
  him, he also will deny us; if we are faithless, he remains faithful— for he
  cannot deny himself. (ESV)

  Revelation 2:17 - He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to
  the churches. To the one who conquers I will give some of the hidden manna,
  and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone
  that no one knows except the one who receives it. (ESV)

Condition: If we overcome persecution and trials
Promise: Jesus will allow us to eat of the hidden Manna and will give a us
white stone with a new name written on it that only the one that receives it
will know.

Indeed the "paradise of God" (Garden of Eden, I assume) is still around:

  Revelation 2:7 - He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to
  the churches. To the one who conquers I will grant to eat of the tree of
  life, which is in the paradise of God. (ESV)

Condition: If we persevere over evil and endure for Christ's namesake and
overcome (persecution and trials)
Promise: We will be allowed to eat from the Tree of Life which is in the
paradise of God

We must set aside sin, and endure our cross, supported by Jesus' spirit:

  Hebrews 12:1-3 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. (ESV)

The ones who will receive the Kingdom are the ones who are producing the
right fruit, keeping Jesus' works:

  Matthew 21:43-44 - Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken
  away from you and given to a people producing its fruits. And the one who
  falls on this stone will be broken to pieces; and when it falls on anyone,
  it will crush him. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 2:26-28 - The one who conquers and who keeps my works
  until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, and he will
  rule them with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces,
  even as I myself have received authority from my Father. And I will give
  him the morning star. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 3:21 - The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit
  with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on
  his throne. (ESV)

  Matthew 24:13-14 - But the one who endures to the end will be saved. And
  this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as
  a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. (ESV)

41. Who will enter the holy city of Jerusalem which is in Heaven? Not sinners. Only
servants. Only those who follow Jesus' commandments

I think it's really the hope of inheritance for people who have strived to
enter the kingdom while on earth.

  Luke 13:22-27 - He went on his way through towns and villages, teaching and
  journeying toward Jerusalem. And someone said to him, Lord, will those who
  are saved be few? And he said to them, Strive to enter through the narrow
  door. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able. When
  once the master of the house has risen and shut the door, and you begin to
  stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, open to us, then he
  will answer you, I do not know where you come from. Then you will begin to
  say, We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets. But
  he will say, I tell you, I do not know where you come from. Depart from me,
  all you workers of evil!

  Hebrews 12:22 - But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the
  living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal
  gathering,

  Revelation of John 21:10 - And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great,
  high mountain, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down out of
  heaven from God,

  Revelation of John 21:27 - But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor
  anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written
  in the Lamb's book of life. (ESV)

41.1. Those who have stopped sinning (potentially through the power of the Holy
Spirit) and who believe in Jesus Christ

  Acts 5:31 - God exalted him at his right hand as Leader and Savior, to give
  repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.

  Acts 11:18 - When they heard these things they fell silent. And they
  glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance
  that leads to life.

41.2. Sinners will not inherit the kingdom of God

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

41.3. We've died to sin, now we live to Christ, and do not allow sin back in

We are slaves of righteousness now - we must obey God, keeping sin dead:

  Romans 6:1 - What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace
  may abound? By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do
  you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were
  baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into
  death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory
  of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been
  united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him
  in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with
  him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we
  would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free
  from sin. Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also
  live with him. We know that Christ being raised from the dead will never
  die again; death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died he
  died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God. So you
  also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.

Do not make sin come alive again, but be a slave of righteousness - be
obedient as it leads to righteousness:

  Romans 6:12-16 - Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies, to make
  you obey their passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments
  for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been
  brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for
  righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not
  under law but under grace? By no means! Do you not know that if you present
  yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you
  obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to
  righteousness?

We must be slaves to righteousness, which leads to our sanctification:

  Romans 6:17-21 - But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin
  have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which
  you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves
  of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural
  limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to
  impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present
  your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. When you
  were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. But what
  fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now
  ashamed? The end of those things is death.

At the end of sanctification is eternal life:

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its
  end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God
  is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

41.4. Compliance with the Torah (Law) is not self-righteousness, but obedience

  Revelation 22:15 - Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and the sexually
  immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices
  falsehood. (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:5 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually
  immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has no
  inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. (ESV)

  1 John 3:4-9 - Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices
  lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away
  sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on
  sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.
  Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is
  righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of
  the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason
  the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born
  of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he
  cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. (ESV)

Derek Prince may have an even better understanding of the Torah's (the Law's)
role in Christianity:

• youtube.com: The Way Into the Holiest - Four Great Blessings of the New
Covenant Part 7 A {7:1}

We must obey Jesus:

  Romans 8:3-4 - For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could
  not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin,
  he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of
  the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but
  according to the Spirit. (ESV)

41.4.1. The law is good, if used properly - and its usage is part of the gospel

The law certainly still exists:

  1 Timothy 1:8-11 - Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it
  lawfully, understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just
  but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the
  unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for
  murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers,
  liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine, in
  accordance with the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have
  been entrusted. (ESV)

  Romans 13:10 - Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the
  fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

Read
The Epistle of Ignatius to the Magnesians

But Christians are not under the law while we are led by the Spirit:

  Ignatius to the Magnesians 8 - Be not deceived with strange doctrines, nor
  with old fables, which are unprofitable. For if we still live according to
  the Jewish law, we acknowledge that we have not received grace. For the
  divinest prophets lived according to Christ Jesus. On this account also
  they were persecuted, being inspired by His grace to fully convince the
  unbelieving that there is one God, who has manifested Himself by Jesus
  Christ His Son, who is His eternal Word, not proceeding forth from silence,
  and who in all things pleased Him that sent Him.

If we are led by the spirit (if we're serving Jesus Christ, seeking
justification through faith in Jesus Christ) then we are not under the Mosaic
law, but we are trying to bear one another's burdens without partiality and
seeking to not harming our neighbour, and we are seeking to not allowing sin
to reign in our mortal bodies. Inheriting the Kingdom of God is for those who
abide by God's law, and conform to Christ's image, and do not allow sin to
reign in their mortal body:

  Galatians 5:18-21 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  law. Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity,
  sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger,
  rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things
  like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such
  things will not inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

We must abide in Jesus. God doesn't give glory to anyone else. God is love
and God is Jehovah and God is Jesus:

  Isaiah 42:8 - I am the LORD; that is my name; my glory I give to no other,
  nor my praise to carved idols. (ESV)

God is love, but God has loved us by sending us Jesus
youtube.com: God Is No Longer Against Us

42. The LORD our God and my Lord Jesus Christ

  Acts 2:34 - For David is not ascended into the heavens: but he saith
  himself, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand,

43. Jesus, the Bread of Life

  Matthew 5:6 - Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness,
  for they shall be satisfied. (ESV)

43.1. Have faith in Jesus. Continue in faith in Jesus and it will well up to
eternal life

  John 6:35 - Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me
  shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst.

  John 6:38-40 - For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will but
  the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that
  I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the
  last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the
  Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up
  on the last day.

43.1.1. Drink

  John 7:37-38 - On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up
  and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever
  believes in me, as the Scripture has said, Out of his heart will flow
  rivers of living water.

  John 4:14 - but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never
  be thirsty forever. The water that I will give him will become in him a
  spring of water welling up to eternal life.

Whoever believes in Jesus.

43.1.2. Food

  John 4:32-34 - But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know
  about. So the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him
  something to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who
  sent me and to accomplish his work. (ESV)

  John 6:27 - Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that
  endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him
  God the Father has set his seal.

  John 6:28-29 - Then they said to him, What must we do, to be doing the
  works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you
  believe (G4100 pisteuo) in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

Whoever believes in him who God has sent.

43.1.3. Look upon, consider and have faith (which is a relationship with God)

  John 6:40 - For this (G3778 houtos) is the will (G2307 thelema) of My
  Father (G3962 pater), that everyone (G3956 pas) who beholds (G2334 theoreo)
  the Son (G5207 huios) and believes (G4100 pisteuo) in Him will have (G2192
  echo) eternal (G166 aionios) life (G2222 zoe), and I Myself (G1473 ego)
  will raise (G450 anistemi) him up on the last (G2078 eschatos) day (G2250
  hemera).”

|  :  2334  theoreo  theh-o-reh'-o
| 
|   from a derivative of 2300 (perhaps by addition of 3708); to be a
|   spectator of, i.e. discern, (literally, figuratively (experience) or
|   intensively (acknowledge)):--behold, consider, look on, perceive, see.
|   Compare 3700.
|   see GREEK for 2300
|   see GREEK for 3708
|   see GREEK for 3700

  John 6:47-58 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal
  life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness,
  and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one
  may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from
  heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread
  that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. The Jews then
  disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to
  eat? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the
  flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.
  Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will
  raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is
  true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and
  I in him. As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father,
  so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This is the bread
  that came down from heaven, not as the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds
  on this bread will live forever.

43.2. Jesus, the Bread of Life

Doing words (verbs):, eats, feeds, drinks.

Action is required on the part of the believer - walking in the light, as he
is in the light.

Obeying Jesus:

• Believing in him
• Continuing to believe in him
• Trusting him
• Obeying him

  John 6:48-58 - I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the
  wilderness, and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven,
  so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down
  from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the
  bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. The Jews then
  disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to
  eat? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the
  flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.
  Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will
  raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is
  true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and
  I in him. As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father,
  so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This is the bread
  that came down from heaven, not as the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds
  on this bread will live forever.

  Hebrews 10:16-22 - This is the covenant that I will make with them after
  those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and
  write them on their minds, then he adds, I will remember their sins and
  their lawless deeds no more. Where there is forgiveness of these, there is
  no longer any offering for sin. Therefore, brothers, since we have
  confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and
  living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his
  flesh, and since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw
  near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts
  sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure
  water.

43.2.1. They will be taught by God, through Jesus

  Isaiah 54:5-17 - For your Maker is your husband, the Lord of hosts is his
  name; and the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer, the God of the whole
  earth he is called. For the Lord has called you like a wife deserted and
  grieved in spirit, like a wife of youth when she is cast off, says your
  God. For a brief moment I deserted you, but with great compassion I will
  gather you. In overflowing anger for a moment I hid my face from you, but
  with everlasting love I will have compassion on you, says the Lord, your
  Redeemer. This is like the days of Noah to me: as I swore that the waters
  of Noah should no more go over the earth, so I have sworn that I will not
  be angry with you, and will not rebuke you. For the mountains may depart
  and the hills be removed, but my steadfast love shall not depart from you,
  and my covenant of peace shall not be removed, says the Lord, who has
  compassion on you. O afflicted one, storm-tossed and not comforted, behold,
  I will set your stones in antimony, and lay your foundations with
  sapphires. I will make your pinnacles of agate, your gates of carbuncles,
  and all your wall of precious stones. All your children shall be taught by
  the Lord, and great shall be the peace of your children. In righteousness
  you shall be established; you shall be far from oppression, for you shall
  not fear; and from terror, for it shall not come near you. If anyone stirs
  up strife, it is not from me; whoever stirs up strife with you shall fall
  because of you. Behold, I have created the smith who blows the fire of
  coals and produces a weapon for its purpose. I have also created the
  ravager to destroy; no weapon that is fashioned against you shall succeed,
  and you shall confute every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This
  is the heritage of the servants of the Lord and their vindication from me,
  declares the Lord.

  Isaiah 30:20-21 - And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and
  the water of affliction, yet your Teacher will not hide himself anymore,
  but your eyes shall see your Teacher. And your ears shall hear a word
  behind you, saying, This is the way, walk in it, when you turn to the right
  or when you turn to the left.

  John 6:44-47 - No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws
  him. And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the
  Prophets, And they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and
  learned from the Father comes to me— not that anyone has seen the Father
  except he who is from God; he has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to
  you, whoever believes has eternal life.

  Jeremiah 31:33-34 - But this is the covenant that I will make with the
  house of Israel after those days, declares the LORD: I will put my law
  within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God,
  and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his
  neighbor and each his brother, saying, Know the LORD, for they shall all
  know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the LORD. For I
  will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. (ESV)

43.3. Abiding in Jesus; Abiding in the Truth

  John 6:33 - For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives
  life to the world.

  John 6:35 - Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me
  shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst.

Believing in Jesus is good work. Believing in Jesus keeps us alive. Obeying
Jesus keeps us alive. Following Jesus keeps us alive.

He is the Way, the Truth and the Life.

  John 6:28-29 - Then they said to him, What must we do, to be doing the
  works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you
  believe (G4100 pisteuo) in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

  John 6:56 - He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me, and I in
  him.

Get intimate with Jesus - really intimate.

I believe this means to become a disciple of Jesus and become one in spirit
with Jesus; to think like Jesus, to walk as Jesus walked, to love God and
obey God as Jesus did, even if one is persecuted for being righteous as
happened to Jesus, to do as Jesus commanded, to become one in spirit with
Jesus. Also, taking communion is about that.

It's really important to come to communion with the type of heart that would
yearn to be a good disciple of Jesus - repentant and obedient, and thankful
for what He has done.

  I John 1:7 - But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
  fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
  from all sin.

  I Corinthians 2:11-16 - For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit
  of that person, which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of
  God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the spirit of the
  world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things
  freely given us by God. And we impart this in words not taught by human
  wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who
  are spiritual. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit
  of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them
  because they are spiritually discerned. The spiritual person judges all
  things, but is himself to be judged by no one. For who has understood the
  mind of the Lord so as to instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.
  (ESV)

  John 5:39 - You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you
  have eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me,

  Leviticus 17:11 - For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have
  given it for you on the altar to make atonement for your souls, for it is
  the blood that makes atonement by the life.

We must have faith in Jesus, we must hope in Jesus, and we must love like
Jesus:

  I Corinthians 13:13 - So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but
  the greatest of these is love. (ESV)

43.3.1. We must love - we must obey Jesus

Loving the way Jesus loves is a requirement!

Keeping Jesus' commandments is obeying Jesus. Obedience to Jesus is a
requirement of a Christian - obedience in the heart, which translates into
deeds.

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

  John 13:35 - By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you
  have love for one another. (ESV)

  John 15:8 - By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so
  prove to be my disciples. (ESV)

  I John 4:16 - So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has
  for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God
  abides in him. (ESV)

43.3.2. Communion is spiritual, and helps us to abide in Him

  John 6:53-58 - So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless
  you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life
  in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and
  I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my
  blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides
  in me, and I in him. As the living Father sent me, and I live because of
  the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This
  is the bread that came down from heaven, not as the fathers ate and died.
  Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever.

We remember Jesus as we take communion:

• We give thanks to God
• Colossians 3:17 - And whatever you do, in word or deed, do
everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks (G2168
eucharisteo) to God the Father through him. (ESV)
• We proclaim the Lord Jesus' death until He comes
• We examine ourselves and compare our hearts to the heart of the Lord
Jesus
• We consider what our Lord Jesus has done for us on the cross
• Before we take communion, we want to examine our own heart to see how we
could be more like Jesus
• How we can be more selfless
• How we can be more loving
• How we can be more like disciples of Jesus
• How we can be more trusting of Jesus
• How we can be more believing of who He is and believing of His
atoning sacrifice
• How we can be more obedient to His commandments
• We believe that Jesus will return

  I Corinthians 11:24-29 - and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and
  said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In
  the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, This cup is the
  new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance
  of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim
  the Lord's death until he comes. Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or
  drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of
  profaning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself,
  then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and
  drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself.

I believe that taking the Eucharist absolutely has spiritual and physical
effects, and the body and blood of Jesus are received through faith.

  I Corinthians 11:30 - That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some
  have died. But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged. But
  when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we may not be
  condemned along with the world. (ESV)

Paul is talking about unity with other believers, participating together in
the body of Christ, even through the sacrament of the Lord's supper /
communion / the Eucharist:

  I Corinthians 10:16-18 - The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a
  participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a
  participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are
  many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread. Consider the people
  of Israel: are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar?

I believe the body and blood of Jesus are received through faith and
thanksgiving, and in unity with other believers, in the sacrament but also
simply with faith, and with belief and obedience to Jesus through his words
and commandments, and it's my belief that we don't need to attend the
Catholic mass exclusively to partake in this, but that taking the Lord's
supper / communion with believers in other church denominations is being just
as effective and faithful to Jesus.

If I were to attend the Catholic mass then I would simply receive it with
faith, remembrance, repentance and thanksgiving, as I do at any other church
I've attended. The way I currently view the Catholic mass is not
"re-sacrificing Jesus" at all as people have said but "co-offering", which is
a word which the following article uses to explain it:

• https://stpaulcenter.com/victim-and-priest-christs-sacrifice-in-the-eucharist/

However, there is only one Mediator between God and man, the man Christ
Jesus, and I do not need any other priest other than Jesus Christ himself in
order to receive the Lord's supper:

  I Timothy 2:5 - For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God
  and men, the man Christ Jesus, (ESV)

Those in the Kingdom of Jesus Christ are priests:

  Revelation of John 5:10 - and you have made them a kingdom and priests to
  our God, and they shall reign on the earth. (ESV)

And Jesus is with us in Spirit:

  II Corinthians 5:16 - From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to
  the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we
  regard him thus no longer. (ESV)

  Matthew 18:20 - For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I
  among them. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:19 - Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the
  holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened
  for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh,

As I understand it, when we come to communion we understand that we want to
be holy as He is holy. It's best to confess sin as sin and repent from it
before coming to communion. Communion is a unity thing. We are united in love
for one another, and holy living, and love of the Truth, and the bread and
wine of the new covenant help us to be sanctified as we agree with the Truth:

  Didache 10:6 - Let grace come, and let this world pass away. Hosanna to the
  Son of David. If any one is holy let him come (to the Eucharist); if any
  one is not, let him repent. Maranatha. Amen.

We must proclaim the Lord's death until He comes, discern the body and judge
ourselves truly before and as we take Holy Communion:

  I Corinthians 11:22-32 - What! Do you not have houses to eat and drink in?
  Or do you despise the church of God and humiliate those who have nothing?
  What shall I say to you? Shall I commend you in this? No, I will not. For I
  received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on
  the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he
  broke it, and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in
  remembrance of me. In the same way also he took the cup, after supper,
  saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you
  drink it, in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and
  drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Whoever,
  therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy
  manner will be guilty of profaning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a
  person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
  For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks
  judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some
  have died. But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged. But
  when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we may not be
  condemned along with the world. (ESV)

Proclaim the Lord's death until He comes:

  I Corinthians 11:25-26 - In the same way also he took the cup, after
  supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often
  as you drink it, in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread
  and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.

Didache Chapter 4
… Do not in any way forsake the commandments of the Lord; but keep what you
have received, neither adding thereto nor taking away therefrom. In the
church you shall acknowledge your transgressions, and you shall not come near
for your prayer with an evil conscience. This is the way of life.

Discerning the Body
bibleref.com 1-Corinthians-11-29.html: What does 1 Corinthians 11:29 mean? |
BibleRef.com

|  What does 1 Corinthians 11:29 mean?
|  This is a sobering verse, especially for believers who regularly participate in communion. Paul has already warned Christians to examine themselves before taking part in the Lord's Supper to avoid doing so in an unworthy way (1 Corinthians 11:28).
| 
|  The cup represents Christ's blood, and the bread represents His broken body. The purpose of taking communion is to commemorate and reflect on the sacrificial death of Jesus (Matthew 26:26–28). To do so without "discerning the body" brings judgment on the participant.
| 
|  The first question this raises is the precise meaning of "discerning the body." Bible scholars primarily suggest two ways of interpreting this, both of which are reasonable, and which can even both be true.
| 
|  The first suggestion is that this refers to a recognition: that the symbolic parallel to Christ's body in the elements of the bread and cup causes a Christian to see them as different from other food. In other words, the Lord's Supper should not be treated like just another meal used to satisfy physical hunger. It must be approached with respect as something much more meaningful and important. This first view of "discerning the body" would fit with Paul's instructions in the following verses about not coming hungry to the Lord's Supper gathering. The Corinthians were clearly not doing this (1 Corinthians 11:17–22).
| 
|   Along with that, partaking in communion is "proclaiming" the death of Jesus (1 Corinthians 11:26). If a person proclaims Jesus' death, but is disobedient to the gospel, that person is essentially daring God to judge them (Galatians 6:6–7). Whether by ignorance, arrogance, or simple error, insulting the sacrifice of Christ—even symbolically—is something God takes seriously.
|  
|   The second interpretive view is that "discerning the body" means recognizing the relationship between Christ's body and the "body of Christ," known as the church. In other words, we must see Christ in our fellow Christians and treat them as we would treat Jesus when we come together. This view fits with what Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 10:16–17.
|  
|   Whichever view Paul intended, both are necessary.

  Hebrews 7:28 - For the law appoints men in their weakness as high priests,
  but the word of the oath, which came later than the law, appoints a Son who
  has been made perfect forever. (ESV)

43.3.3. Getting Jesus' words in us helps us to abide in Him

If a person believes Jesus' words their faith will grow.

Father God authorizes people to come to Jesus, but that person must come to
Jesus (of their own volition, I think).

  John 6:61-65 - But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were
  grumbling about this, said to them, Do you take offense at this? Then what
  if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is
  the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The words that I have
  spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some of you who do not
  believe. (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not
  believe, and who it was who would betray him. ) And he said, This is why I
  told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father.

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed (4100. pisteuó,
  pepisteukotas) in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
  and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. (ESV)

  John 15:3-4 - Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken
  to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by
  itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in
  me.

We've got to believe Jesus:

  John 5:37-38 - And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about
  me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you
  do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he
  has sent. (ESV)

  John 15:7 - If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you
  wish, and it will be done for you. (ESV)

43.3.4. Living the way Jesus commanded us helps us to abide in Him

Living as Jesus instructed us to live. Living as Jesus also lived.

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us. (ESV)

  John 15:13 - Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his
  life for his friends. (ESV)

  I John 4:16 - So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has
  for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God
  abides in him. (ESV)

44. The day

If someone has the light in him, he walks in the day.

  I Thessalonians 5:8 - But since we belong to the day, let us be sober,
  having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope
  of salvation. (ESV)

  John 9:3-5 - Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned, or his
  parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work
  the works of him who sent me while it is day; night is coming, when no one
  can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. (ESV)

  John 12:35 - So Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little
  while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you.
  The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. (ESV)

Walking in the light is walking righteously, in love and holiness and truth:

  Ephesians 5:1-17 - Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And
  walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant
  offering and sacrifice to God. But sexual immorality and all impurity or
  covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints.
  Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking, which are out
  of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving. For you may be sure of
  this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous
  (that is, an idolater), has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and
  God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things
  the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not
  associate with them; for at one time you were darkness, but now you are
  light in the Lord. Walk as children of light (for the fruit of light is
  found in all that is good and right and true), and try to discern what is
  pleasing to the Lord. Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but
  instead expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of the things that
  they do in secret. But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes
  visible, for anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says,
  Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.
  Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise, making the
  best use of the time, because the days are evil. Therefore do not be
  foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. (ESV)

If someone walks in the day with the light in them, they will not stumble.
With the light in them, they should not be concerned about such worries. They
should put confidence in the light.

  John 11:6-10 - So, when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days
  longer in the place where he was. Then after this he said to the disciples,
  Let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were
  just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus
  answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the
  day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if
  anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.
  (ESV)

Interestingly, Jesus goes confidently back to Judea where the disciples were
worried he would be stoned, but instead of someone killing Jesus, Jesus
resurrects Lazarus. I guess it pays to walk while you have the light.

  John 11:11-15 - After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend
  Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to
  him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus had spoken
  of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep. Then
  Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died, and for your sake I am glad that
  I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him. (ESV)

We should be more confident with the light!

  Matthew 5:16 - In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that
  they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in
  heaven.

  II Corinthians 8:1-2 - We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of
  God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia, for in a severe
  test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have
  overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: This Is The Day {Garratt}

  Romans 13:12-14 - The night is far gone; the day is at hand. So then let us
  cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us walk
  properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual
  immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy. But put on the
  Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its
  desires. (ESV)

44.1. No more night

  Revelation 22:3-5 - No longer will there be anything accursed, but the
  throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship
  him. They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. And
  night will be no more. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord
  God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. (ESV)

  Matthew 17:1-3 - And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James,
  and John his brother, and led them up a high mountain by themselves. And he
  was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his
  clothes became white as light. And behold, there appeared to them Moses and
  Elijah, talking with him. (ESV)

45. Christian perfection through suffering with Christ is a thing

• en.wikipedia.org: Christian perfection - Wikipedia

45.1. Living a godly life in Christ Jesus is to be wise for salvation

  II Timothy 3:12-15 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, while evil people and impostors will go on from
  bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. But as for you, continue in
  what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you
  learned it and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred
  writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in
  Christ Jesus. (ESV)

45.2. Unity in faith and truth and love

  Colossians 3:14 - Beyond all (G3956 pas) these things put on love (G26
  agape), which (G3739 hos) is the perfect bond of unity. (NASB)

  John 17:23 - I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one,
  so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you
  loved me. (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:13 - Follow the pattern of the sound words that you have heard
  from me, in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

  John 17:23 - I in them and You in Me, that they may be perfected (G5048
  teleioo) in unity, so that the world (G2889 kosmos) may know (G1097
  ginosko) that You sent Me, and loved (G25 agapao) them, even as You have
  loved (G25 agapao) Me. (NASB)

  I Peter 3:8-12 - Finally, all of you, have unity of mind, sympathy,
  brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for
  evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you
  were called, that you may obtain a blessing. For Whoever desires to love
  life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from
  speaking deceit; let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek
  peace and pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his
  ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those
  who do evil. (ESV)

  I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:2 - with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing
  with one another in love, (ESV)

  Zechariah 7:9 - Thus says the LORD of hosts, Render true judgments, show
  kindness and mercy to one another, (ESV)

  Matthew 18:33 - And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant,
  as I had mercy on you? (ESV)

  Colossians 3:12-13 - Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved,
  compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one
  another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other;
  as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. (ESV)

  I John 3:18-19 - Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in
  deed and in truth. By this we shall know that we are of the truth and
  reassure our heart before him; (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:1-6 - I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in
  a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all
  humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love,
  eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is
  one body and one Spirit—just as you were called to the one hope that
  belongs to your call— one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father
  of all, who is over all and through all and in all. (ESV)

  Romans 6:5 - For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we
  shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 1:10 - I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord
  Jesus Christ, that all of you agree and that there be no divisions among
  you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment. (ESV)

  Psalms 133:1 - Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in
  unity! (ESV)

45.3. It's wholeness and fullness, knowledge of Jesus

  I Corinthians 13:10 - but when the perfect (G5046 teleios) comes, the
  partial (G3313 meros) will be done away.

  Ephesians 4:13 - until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the
  knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the
  stature of the fullness of Christ, (ESV)

45.4. It's cleaning ourselves up from all defilement of flesh and spirit

  II Corinthians 7:1 - Therefore, having these promises, beloved, let us
  cleanse ourselves (G1438 heautou) from all (G3956 pas) defilement of flesh
  (G4561 sarx) and spirit (G4151 pneuma), perfecting holiness in the fear of
  God (G2316 theos).

45.5. It's a process leading to the day of Christ Jesus

  Philippians 3:12 - Not that I have already obtained (G2983 lambano) it or
  have already become perfect (G5048 teleioo), but I press on so that I may
  lay hold of that for which (G3739 hos) also I was laid hold of by Christ
  (G5547 Christos) Jesus (G2424 Iesous).

  Philippians 1:6 - For I am confident of this very thing, that He who began
  a good work (G2041 ergon) in you will perfect it until the day (G2250
  hemera) of Christ (G5547 Christos) Jesus (G2424 Iesous).

45.6. Having suffered for righteousness-sake

Jesus mends (G2675 katartizo) us after a little suffering, and stabilises
(G4741 sterizo) us, makes us strong (G4599 sthenoo) and makes us stable
(G2311 themelioo), establishing us:

  I Peter 5:10 - After you have suffered (G3958 pascho) for a little (G3641
  oligos) while (G3641 oligos), the God (G2316 theos) of all (G3956 pas)
  grace (G5485 charis), who called (G2564 kaleo) you to His eternal (G166
  aionios) glory (G1391 doxa) in Christ (G5547 Christos), will Himself (G846
  autos) perfect (G2675 katartizo), confirm (G4741 sterizo), strengthen
  (G4599 sthenoo) and establish (G2311 themelioo) you.

45.7. Without lack

  James 1:4 - And let endurance have its perfect (5046. teleios) result
  (G2041 ergon), so that you may be perfect (G5046 teleios) and complete,
  lacking in nothing. (NASB)

  James 2:22 - You see that faith (G4102 pistis) was working with (4903.
  sunergeó) his works (G2041 ergon), and as a result of the works (G2041
  ergon), faith (G4102 pistis) was perfected (G5048 teleioo);

4903. sunergeó
Definition: to work together. Usage: I cooperate with, work together.

In treasuring Jesus' words, keeping them, guarding them, observing them, in
Him the agape (treasuring, valuing love) has truly been perfected. Having
Jesus' teachings in us clearly should result in us walking as He did:

  I John 2:5-6 - but whoever keeps (5083. téreó) His word (G3056 logos), in
  him the love (G26 agape) of God (G2316 theos) has truly been perfected
  (G5048 teleioo). By this we know (G1097 ginosko) that we are in Him:
  whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he
  walked. (ESV)

  I John 4:12 - No one has seen God (G2316 theos) at any time; if we love
  (G25 agapao) one another, God (G2316 theos) abides in us, and His love (G26
  agape) is perfected (G5048 teleioo) in us.

45.8. Perfection is the result of sanctification

  Hebrews 5:8-10 - Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what
  he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after
  the order of Melchizedek.

  Hebrews 7:11 - Now if perfection had been attainable through the Levitical
  priesthood (for under it the people received the law), what further need
  would there have been for another priest to arise after the order of
  Melchizedek, rather than one named after the order of Aaron?

  Hebrews 2:11-12 - For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all
  have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
  saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the
  congregation I will sing your praise. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 7:1 - Therefore, having these promises, beloved, let us
  cleanse ourselves (G1438 heautou) from all (G3956 pas) defilement of flesh
  (G4561 sarx) and spirit (G4151 pneuma), perfecting holiness in the fear of
  God (G2316 theos).

45.8.1. Faith

  Hebrews 12:2 - looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith,
  who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the
  shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. (ESV)

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

45.8.2. Spirit

  Hebrews 12:23: - to the general assembly and church of the firstborn who
  are enrolled in heaven (G3772 ouranos), and to God (G2316 theos), the Judge
  of all (G3956 pas), and to the spirits (G4151 pneuma) of the righteous
  (G1342 dikaios) made (G5048 teleioo) perfect (G5048 teleioo),

45.8.3. Holiness

  James 3:2-3 - For we all stumble in many ways, and if anyone does not
  stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole
  body. If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we
  guide their whole bodies as well. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:1 - For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to
  come instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same
  sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who
  draw near. (ESV)

Jesus' sacrifice is comprehensive:

  Hebrews 10:16-18 - This is the covenant that I will make with them after
  those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and
  write them on their minds, then he adds, I will remember their sins and
  their lawless deeds no more. Where there is forgiveness of these, there is
  no longer any offering for sin.

  Hebrews 10:14 - For by a single offering he has perfected for all time
  those who are being sanctified. (ESV)

  Hebrews 9:9 - (which is symbolic for the present age). According to this
  arrangement, gifts and sacrifices are offered that cannot perfect the
  conscience of the worshiper, (ESV)

45.8.4. Love / knowing Jesus / Truth

In agape love treasuring Jesus' words, keeping them, guarding them, observing
them, obeying them out of trusting in Jesus, in Him the agape (treasuring,
valuing love) has truly been perfected. Having Jesus' teachings in us clearly
should result in us walking as He did:

  I John 2:5-6 - but whoever keeps (5083. téreó) His word (G3056 logos), in
  him the love (G26 agape) of God (G2316 theos) has truly been perfected
  (G5048 teleioo). By this we know (G1097 ginosko) that we are in Him:
  whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he
  walked. (ESV)

We are commanded to reject the idols to treasure God first. If we do this
then we draw near to God and God draws near to us:

  II Corinthians 6:17-18 - Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate
  from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome
  you, and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to
  me, says the Lord Almighty. (ESV)

  James 4:8 - Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your
  hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. (ESV)

  Psalms 73:25-28 - Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on
  earth that I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is
  the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are
  far from you shall perish; you put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to
  you. But for me it is good to be near God; I have made the Lord GOD my
  refuge, that I may tell of all your works. (ESV)

Having an obedience that is based on trust in Jesus, we come into doing the
will of God:

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

  Philippians 3:14 - I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward
  call of God in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

Following the teachings of Christ out of a trust in Jesus:

  Didache Chapter 6 - See that no one causes you to err from this way of the
  Teaching, since apart from God it teaches you. For if you are able to bear
  the entire yoke of the Lord, you will be perfect; but if you are not able
  to do this, do what you are able.

  Matthew 5:47-48 - And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you
  doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must
  be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me. (ESV)

Agape treasuring our family in Christ, God abides in us:

  I John 4:12 - No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides
  in us and his love is perfected in us. (ESV)

  John 8:19 - They said to him therefore, Where is your Father? Jesus
  answered, You know neither me nor my Father. If you knew me, you would know
  my Father also. (ESV)

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:14 - For by a single offering he has perfected for all time
  those who are being sanctified. (ESV)

  John 17:17 - Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth. (ESV)

  John 17:22-23 - The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that
  they may be one even as we are one, I in them and you in me, that they may
  become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved
  them even as you loved me. (ESV)

46. Eldership

46.1. Cultivating discipleship

I believe that opportunity to exercise Christ's love should be encouraged,
and the benefit of the doubt should be given for the sake of Jesus, rather
than punishing newborn Christians and disciples of Jesus.

  Philippians 2:3 - Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count
  others more significant than yourselves. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:22-23 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
  patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control;
  against such things there is no law. (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:7 - for God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and love
  and self-control. (ESV)

46.2. Don't dominate the flock, but be an example

We're supposed to lead by example.

To be domineering is to behave like a lord.

  II Corinthians 1:24 - Not that we lord it over your faith, but we work with
  you for your joy, for you stand firm in your faith. (ESV)

  1 Peter 5:1-4 - So I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder and a
  witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory
  that is going to be revealed: shepherd the flock of God that is among you,
  exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would
  have you; not for shameful gain, but eagerly; not domineering over those in
  your charge, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief Shepherd
  appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 8:6 - yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are
  all things and for whom we exist, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom
  are all things and through whom we exist.

  Ephesians 4:5 - one Lord, one faith, one baptism,

  I Corinthians 11:3 - But I want you to understand that the head of every
  man is Christ, the head of a wife is her husband, and the head of Christ is
  God. (ESV)

46.2.1. Jesus is our only Teacher and Lord

  I John 2:27 - But the anointing that you received from him abides in you,
  and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing
  teaches you about everything—and is true and is no lie, just as it has
  taught you—abide in him. (ESV)

  I John 2:24 - Let what you heard from the beginning abide in you. If what
  you heard from the beginning abides in you, then you too will abide in the
  Son and in the Father. (ESV)

  John 13:13 - You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 23:8 - But you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one
  teacher, and you are all brothers. (ESV)

  Matthew 23:10 - Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor
  (G2519. kathégétés), the Christ. (ESV)

2519. kathégétés
Definition: Teacher, Leader, Guide. Meaning: a leader, teacher, guide,
master.

youtube.com: Humbling Ourselves @time: 13 min 3 sec
Pride considers itself above instruction. When God speaks and we don't
listen.

  Jeremiah 13:9-11 - Thus says the LORD: Even so will I spoil the pride of
  Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem. This evil people, who refuse to
  hear my words, who stubbornly follow their own heart and have gone after
  other gods to serve them and worship them, shall be like this loincloth,
  which is good for nothing. For as the loincloth clings to the waist of a
  man, so I made the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah cling
  to me, declares the LORD, that they might be for me a people, a name, a
  praise, and a glory, but they would not listen. (ESV)

Elders, listen to God. Those who are younger, be subject to the elders:

  I Peter 5:5-7 - Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders.
  Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for God
  opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves,
  therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may
  exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you.
  (ESV)

46.2.2. Jesus has said we must forsake sin and follow Jesus to enter the
kingdom

Stop serving sin, and start serving Jesus.

Anyone who says otherwise is a false teacher:

  John 10:27-28 - My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
  me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will
  snatch them out of my hand. (ESV)

  Luke 13:2-9 - And he answered them, Do you think that these Galileans were
  worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered in this
  way? No, I tell you; but unless you repent (3340. metanoeó), you will all
  likewise perish. Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and
  killed them: do you think that they were worse offenders than all the
  others who lived in Jerusalem? No, I tell you; but unless you repent (3340.
  metanoeó), you will all likewise perish. And he told this parable: A man
  had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it and
  found none. And he said to the vinedresser, Look, for three years now I
  have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it down. Why
  should it use up the ground? And he answered him, Sir, let it alone this
  year also, until I dig around it and put on manure. Then if it should bear
  fruit next year, well and good; but if not, you can cut it down. (ESV)

  Luke 18:18-27 - And a ruler asked him, Good Teacher, what must I do to
  inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No
  one is good except God alone. You know the commandments: Do not commit
  adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor
  your father and mother. And he said, All these I have kept from my youth.
  When Jesus heard this, he said to him, One thing you still lack. Sell all
  that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in
  heaven; and come, follow me. But when he heard these things, he became very
  sad, for he was extremely rich. Jesus, looking at him with sadness, said,
  How difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
  For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a
  rich person to enter the kingdom of God. Those who heard it said, Then who
  can be saved? But he said, What is impossible with men is possible with
  God.

We stop obeying sin and start obeying Jesus, our Master:

  II Peter 2:1 - But false prophets also arose among the people, just as
  there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in
  destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing
  upon themselves swift destruction.

  Acts 20:20-21 - how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that
  was profitable, and teaching you in public and from house to house,
  testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance toward God and of faith
  in our Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

46.3. Forsake sin and serve Jesus

  Proverbs 20:23 - Unequal weights are an abomination to the LORD, and false
  scales are not good. (ESV)

  Proverbs 21:27 - The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination; how much
  more when he brings it with evil intent. (ESV)

  Proverbs 12:22 - Lying lips are an abomination to the LORD, but those who
  act faithfully are his delight. (ESV)

  Proverbs 15:26 - The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD,
  but gracious words are pure. (ESV)

  Proverbs 29:27 - An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, but one
  whose way is straight is an abomination to the wicked. (ESV)

  Proverbs 3:32 - for the devious person is an abomination to the LORD, but
  the upright are in his confidence. (ESV)

  Proverbs 6:16-19 - There are six things that the LORD hates, seven that are
  an abomination to him: haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed
  innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that make haste to
  run to evil, a false witness who breathes out lies, and one who sows
  discord among brothers. (ESV)

  Proverbs 17:15 - He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the
  righteous are both alike an abomination to the LORD. (ESV)

  Proverbs 28:9 - If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his
  prayer is an abomination. (ESV)

Do not even seek them out:

  Leviticus 19:31 - Do not turn to mediums or wizards; do not seek them out,
  and so make yourselves unclean by them: I am the LORD your God. (ESV)

  Exodus 22:18 - You shall not permit a sorceress to live. (ESV)

  Leviticus 20:27 - A man or a woman who is a medium or a wizard shall surely
  be put to death. They shall be stoned with stones; their blood shall be
  upon them. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 21:8 - But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the
  detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters,
  and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and
  sulfur, which is the second death. (ESV)

  Leviticus 20:6 - If a person turns to mediums and wizards, whoring after
  them, I will set my face against that person and will cut him off from
  among his people. (ESV)

  I Samuel 15:22-23 - And Samuel said, Has the LORD as great delight in burnt
  offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold, to
  obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. For
  rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and
  idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the LORD, he has also
  rejected you from being king. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

46.3.1. Jesus when He sets us free, helps us to stop sinning

  I John 3:8 - Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the
  devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God
  appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. (ESV)

  John 8:36 - So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed. (ESV)

46.4. Put sin to death

I think it's really important to 'stop sinning', and particularly against
your own body, especially after being placed into Christ.

It's important to no longer will to do the sin, and to will for the sin to
stop, and to cooperate with Jesus in putting a stop to it.

This is a strong warning:

  Hebrews 12:15-17 - See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God;
  that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble, and by it many
  become defiled; that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who
  sold his birthright for a single meal. For you know that afterward, when he
  desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to
  repent, though he sought it with tears. (ESV)

youtube.com: Has My Sexual Sin Made Me Unsavable?

|  Dear Heavenly Father, Jehovah God,
|  please God help me to:
|  - stop bitterness and unforgiveness
|  - stop all sexual immorality
|  - stop all unholiness
|  In Jesus Christ's name I ask,
|  AMEN!!

I read this somewhere:

|  The key to overcoming repetitive sins is to read God's word everyday and then
|  praying and surrendering yourself to Christ. Ask God to lead you away from
|  temptation and to deliver you from evil. Remain vigilant on what your eye sees
|  and what you ears hear. God bless.

46.4.1. We want to be transformed

My biggest problems exist inside of me, not outside:

youtube.com: War of Words: Getting to the Heart for God's Sake @time: 27 min
21 sec
when you are able to convince yourself that your deepest greatest problems in
life exist outside of you not inside of you you quit being a seeker after the
transforming grace of the Lord Jesus Christ

Sermon :: youtube.com: Killing Lust with the Cross of Christ
Step 1: The sin is cancelled by the blood of Christ. We're Justified before
God, and then Step 2: We purge that sin from our lives; Can't ever get that
backwards. Sin canceled, then sin purged.

46.4.2. Quote from John Piper

  There's a whole cloud of witnesses that finished the race. They have lined
  up along the race course of your life and they are shouting to you from
  chapter 11, "You're not helpless. By faith you can do this. You could be
  killed. You can walk out of lust and out of pornography. By faith you can
  do this. That great cloud of witnesses did not become Esaus. And that great
  cloud ends with Jesus in verse 2 of chapter 12."

Faith chapter:

• Hebrews 11-12:2

46.4.3. Also, my thoughts

I like to think that there are actually lots of people cheering me on during
my race who have already finished the race. I hope to finish it. I really
hope to finish it.

  Dear Heavenly Father, Jehovah God, Please, LORD Jesus, let me finish the
  race. Do not abandon me Jesus, please. Please let me put all the sin to
  death. I want it to die. I do not want to be killed by it. In Jesus
  Christ's name I pray, AMEN!

46.5. Those that are younger, be subject to the elders

  I Peter 5:5 - Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders.
  Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for God
  opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.

God's grace goes to the humble.

46.6. It's more important to obey God if an elder is teaching falsehood

  Acts 5:29 - But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather
  than men.

  I Corinthians 11:3 - But I want you to understand that the head of every
  man is Christ, the head of a wife is her husband, and the head of Christ is
  God. (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:23 - For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is
  the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.

46.6.1. Obedience to Christ is also necessary for salvation

  Hebrews 5:8-10 - Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what
  he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after
  the order of Melchizedek.

So sometimes a person needs to choose Jesus over false teachers and blind
guides.

47. Concerning Baptism (taken from the Didache)

|  Chapter 7.
| 
|  Concerning Baptism.
| 
|  And concerning baptism, baptize this way:
|  Having first said all these things, baptize
|  into the name of the Father, and of the Son,
|  and of the Holy Spirit, in living water.
| 
|   But if you have no living water, baptize into
|   other water; and if you cannot do so in cold
|   water, do so in warm.
|  
|   But if you have neither, pour out water three
|   times upon the head into the name of Father
|   and Son and Holy Spirit.
|  
|   But before the baptism let the baptizer fast,
|   and the baptized, and whoever else can; but
|   you shall order the baptized to fast one or
|   two days before.

• Trinitarian.
• Baptising into the Trinitarian name of the LORD God
• AMEN!!
• Moving water:
• Immersion in a river, for example
• Pouring is fine interestingly, also

youtube.com: The Didache: The Earliest Christian Writing After the Bible

• The Holy Spirit poured out onto the people of God.

I was baptised again to rededicate my life to the Lord Jesus Christ. I see no
problem with getting baptised again, personally. I see it as like renewing
wedding vows. I've only been made a child of God, born-again of the spirit
(grafted into Christ), once, though!

I have been baptised 3 times total now, but I would not recommend more than
one baptism!

But being born-again as a child of God through the spirit only happened to me
one time.

But each time I was baptised it was in the names of the Father, Son and Holy
Spirit.

I've got my reasons why this has happened.

The summary of it is that while I was water baptised at 15-17 years old,
nothing much appeared to happen.

But at 35 I was spontaneously born-again of the Spirit after a little
repentance and seeking God.

After I was born-again of the spirit, I began studying and writing about
early Christian writings including stuff which is not canon, and writing out
and responding to my visions online, and that appears to have had a strong
effect on my world and relationships.

For example, as a consequence I had a dream of a mass baptism 10 days in
advance and was drawn into a church again and I got baptised again, which in
retrospect I believe was a mistake.

I wanted to get baptised the last time to really show God I was all in with
Jesus, with nothing else, and to repent of sin, to repent of declaring any
public endorsement of gay marriage, to fall out of agreement with
Valentinianism, to repent towards holiness and a more sound understanding of
the Christian faith - I wanted a good conscience with God.

And now I feel like I'm dealing with the fallout of a very messy and
action-packed born-again experience, but at this stage I no longer feel
condemnation, and I feel a lot stronger in my faith and prepared, and I have
a good conscience with God.

Repentance after being born-again of the Spirit is biblical:

  Romans 8:13 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if
  by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. (ESV)

Each time I was baptised, was into the names of the Father, Son and Holy
Spirit.

Well, actually, the third time I had actually been baptised in the names of
Almighty Father God, His Only-Begotton and precious Jesus Christ, and His
Holy Spirit.

So therefore, I don't see the big problem with wanting to rededicate myself
to Jesus, but I would definitely recommend sticking to doing this one time,
and also at the point where you really want to partake in the resurrection of
Jesus - I think believer's baptism is Scriptural.

I don't have all the answers guys to how it works! But Jesus did say:

  John 3:8 - The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you
  do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone
  who is born of the Spirit. (ESV)

47.1. We are baptised into Christ, not into a denomination

  Romans 6:3 - Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into
  Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? (ESV)

  I Corinthians 1:13 - Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were
  you baptized in the name of Paul? (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:4-5 - There is one body and one Spirit—just as you were called
  to the one hope that belongs to your call— one Lord, one faith, one
  baptism, (ESV)

48. Can other religions exist anywhere in the Kingdom of God? They have to put
their faith in and follow Jesus

It's not really the religion but the person who puts their faith in Jesus and
obeys the gospel who will be saved.

  John 7:24 - Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment.
  (ESV)

Also, no-one can save themself from eternal damnation - it's only the blood
of Jesus which can.

The words Jesus Christ spoke were altogether a commandment of eternal life
which Father God had given Jesus to speak:

  John 12:49-50 - For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father
  who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say and what to
  speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say,
  therefore, I say as the Father has told me. (ESV)

It is all by God's grace that we are saved. A believing and obedient heart is
a trusting heart - a heart of faith - and our obedience gives us confidence.
All glory to God alone. We must obey Jesus to become like Jesus:

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

I'd have more confidence if I was following Jesus is reality and from the
heart but was caught up in incorrect theology, than if thought I had all the
correct theology but didn't do what Jesus said. When confronted with the
reality of Jesus Christ, we must believe Him, believe who He is, believe what
He's done, love Him and put our faith in Him:

Correct Christology is important, but so is obeying Jesus' commandments:

  Acts 24:22 - But Felix, having a rather accurate knowledge of the Way, put
  them off, saying, When Lysias the tribune comes down, I will decide your
  case. (ESV)

  Matthew 21:28-31 - “But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came
  to the first and said, ‘Son, go work today in the vineyard.’ And he
  answered, ‘I will not’; but afterward he regretted it and went. The man
  came to the second and said the same thing; and he answered, ‘I will, sir’;
  but he did not go. Which of the two did the will of his father?” They said,
  “The first.” Jesus said to them, “Truly I say to you that the tax
  collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you.

It's not the ones with the correct doctrine who will stand in the
congregation of the righteous, but the ones who do the will of God:

  Psalms 5:5 - The boastful shall not stand before your eyes; you hate all
  evildoers. (ESV)

Saint Justin Martyr: Fragments of the Lost Work of Justin on the Resurrection
{Roberts-Donaldson}
The word of truth is free, and carries its own authority, disdaining to fall
under any skilful argument, or to endure the logical scrutiny of its hearers.
But it would be believed for its own nobility, and for the confidence due to
Him who sends it. Now the word of truth is sent from God; wherefore the
freedom claimed by the truth is not arrogant. For being sent with authority,
it were not fit that it should be required to produce proof of what is said;
since neither is there any proof beyond itself, which is God. For every proof
is more powerful and trustworthy than that which it proves; since what is
disbelieved, until proof is produced, gets credit when such proof is
produced, and is recognised as being what it was stated to be. But nothing is
either more powerful or more trustworthy than the truth; so that he who
requires proof of this is like one who wishes it demonstrated why the things
that appear to the senses do appear. For the test of those things which are
received through the reason, is sense; but of sense itself there is no test
beyond itself. As then we bring those things which reason hunts after, to
sense, and by it judge what kind of things they are, whether the things
spoken be true or false, and then sit in judgment no longer, giving full
credit to its decision; so also we refer all that is said regarding men and
the world to the truth, and by it judge whether it be worthless or no. But
the utterances of truth we judge by no separate test, giving full credit to
itself.

For that reason, I would have more confidence before God if I was serving
Him, having put sin to death and trying to be holy and selfless and loving in
faith towards Jesus, than if I believed precise theology but had no changed
life / love for Jesus:

  Psalms 1:4-5 - The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind
  drives away. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor
  sinners in the congregation of the righteous; (ESV)

Those who follow Him and know Him are the ones who trust and obey His word,
and their faith in Him is the proof. The doctrine is invulnerable, and we
should affirm it and obey it to do battle against the adversary, the devil,
to help the weak:

Saint Justin Martyr: Fragments of the Lost Work of Justin on the Resurrection
{Roberts-Donaldson}
And God, the Father of the universe, who is the perfect intelligence, is the
truth. And the Word, being His Son, came to us, having put on flesh,
revealing both Himself and the Father, giving to us in Himself resurrection
from the dead, and eternal life afterwards. And this is Jesus Christ, our
Saviour and Lord. He, therefore, is Himself both the faith and the proof of
Himself and of all things. Wherefore those who follow Him, and know Him,
having faith in Him as their proof, shall rest in Him. But since the
adversary does not cease to resist many, and uses many and divers arts to
ensnare them, that he may seduce the faithful from their faith, and that he
may prevent the faithless from believing, it seems to me necessary that we
also, being armed with the invulnerable doctrines of the faith, do battle
against him in behalf of the weak.

Unity in Christ is unity in faith and truth and love:

  Colossians 3:14 - Beyond all (G3956 pas) these things put on love (G26
  agape), which (G3739 hos) is the perfect bond of unity.

  John 17:23 - I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one,
  so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you
  loved me. (ESV)

  II Timothy 1:13 - Follow the pattern of the sound words that you have heard
  from me, in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

Glorification can only come through being found in Jesus Christ:

  Isaiah 42:8 - I am the LORD; that is my name; my glory I give to no other,
  nor my praise to carved idols. (ESV)

And in Jesus Christ there is no sin:

  I John 3:5-6 - You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him
  there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who
  keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.

A comprehensive and broad understanding of the Bible is certainly important
so we are not "tossed around by every wind of doctrine", and to grow into and
become established in the knowledge of Jesus, and able to not be tossed
around when people ask questions about doctrine (I have often felt tested in
this way, and sometimes unprepared), and that is why I am writing this Bible
study out:

  Ephesians 4:11-16 - And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the
  evangelists, the pastors and teachers, to equip the saints for the work of
  ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the
  unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature
  manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that
  we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried
  about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in
  deceitful schemes. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in
  every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole body,
  joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when
  each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself
  up in love. (ESV)

We shouldn't go beyond what is written:

  I Corinthians 4:6 - I have applied all these things to myself and Apollos
  for your benefit, brothers, that you may learn by us not to go beyond what
  is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against
  another. (ESV)

We must keep ourselves in the love of God by obeying Jesus Christ's
commandments, because we're awaiting to receive eternal life:

  Jude 1:21 - keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of
  our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. (ESV)

Keeping Jesus Christ's commandments is a requirement to inherit eternal life,
not an extra:

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

Whoever truly believes Jesus trusts in and is obedient to Jesus. We must obey
Jesus Christ, and that obedience means being a slave of righteousness,
leading to sanctification, which leads to eternal life:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

Therefore, I don't want to flat-out disqualify people who do not have
precisely the correct doctrine or theology.

Is there a subtle difference between 'believer' and 'saint'?

  II Thessalonians 1:9-12 - They will suffer the punishment of eternal
  destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his
  might, when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints, and to be
  marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was
  believed. To this end we always pray for you, that our God may make you
  worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work
  of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified
  in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord
  Jesus Christ. (ESV)

Saints keep the commandments of God:

  Revelation of John 14:12 - Here is a call for the endurance of the saints,
  those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus.

Video
youtube.com: Called to Be Saints | Charles Spurgeon | Devotional | Morning &
Evening: Daily Readings

Quote by Charles Spurgeon
All are "saints" whom God has called by His grace and sanctified by His
Spirit;

Jesus is not ashamed to call brothers [and sisters] those who are cleaned up
and sanctified through obedience to Jesus' gospel:

  Hebrews 2:11 - For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have
  one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, (ESV)

  I Corinthians 1:2 - To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those
  sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who
  in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord
  and ours: (ESV)

Jesus goes to those who hear His voice to bring them into His flock:

  John 10:16 - And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring
  them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock,
  one shepherd. (ESV)

Jesus Christ is God's servant. We are Jesus' servants. It is a kingdom of
servants, obedient to God.

48.1. Not all religions are equal. There is only one true God, the Father of
Jesus Christ who has revealed Himself in Jesus Christ

  Ignatius to the Magnesians 8 - Be not deceived with strange doctrines, nor
  with old fables, which are unprofitable. For if we still live according to
  the Jewish law, we acknowledge that we have not received grace. For the
  divinest prophets lived according to Christ Jesus. On this account also
  they were persecuted, being inspired by His grace to fully convince the
  unbelieving that there is one God, who has manifested Himself by Jesus
  Christ His Son, who is His eternal Word, not proceeding forth from silence,
  and who in all things pleased Him that sent Him.

The only way to Father God is through Jesus:

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
  No one comes to the Father except through me. (ESV)

  1 Corinthians 8:5-6 - For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or
  on earth-as indeed there are many gods and many lords- yet for us there is
  one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist, and
  one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we
  exist. (ESV)

Jesus Himself is the bread of God - Jesus Himself is the source of life:

  John 6:33 - For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives
  life to the world.

  John 6:35 - Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me
  shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst.

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all
  people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

Jesus delivers us from the present evil age, that we may seek to please God
as slaves/bond-servants of Christ:

  Galatians 1:1-10 - Paul, an apostle—not from men nor through man, but
  through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead— and
  all the brothers who are with me, To the churches of Galatia: Grace to you
  and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself
  for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will
  of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. I am
  astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the
  grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel — not that there is
  another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the
  gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to
  you a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed.
  As we have said before, so now I say again: If anyone is preaching to you a
  gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. For am I now
  seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I
  were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. (ESV)

  Micah 4:1-13 - It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain
  of the house of the LORD shall be established as the highest of the
  mountains, and it shall be lifted up above the hills; and peoples shall
  flow to it, and many nations shall come, and say: Come, let us go up to the
  mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach
  us his ways and that we may walk in his paths. For out of Zion shall go
  forth the law, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem. He shall judge
  between many peoples, and shall decide for strong nations afar off; and
  they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning
  hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they
  learn war anymore; but they shall sit every man under his vine and under
  his fig tree, and no one shall make them afraid, for the mouth of the LORD
  of hosts has spoken. For all the peoples walk each in the name of its god,
  but we will walk in the name of the LORD our God forever and ever. In that
  day, declares the LORD, I will assemble the lame and gather those who have
  been driven away and those whom I have afflicted; and the lame I will make
  the remnant, and those who were cast off, a strong nation; and the LORD
  will reign over them in Mount Zion from this time forth and forevermore.
  And you, O tower of the flock, hill of the daughter of Zion, to you shall
  it come, the former dominion shall come, kingship for the daughter of
  Jerusalem. Now why do you cry aloud? Is there no king in you? Has your
  counselor perished, that pain seized you like a woman in labor? Writhe and
  groan, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in labor, for now you shall go out
  from the city and dwell in the open country; you shall go to Babylon. There
  you shall be rescued; there the LORD will redeem you from the hand of your
  enemies. Now many nations are assembled against you, saying, Let her be
  defiled, and let our eyes gaze upon Zion. But they do not know the thoughts
  of the LORD; they do not understand his plan, that he has gathered them as
  sheaves to the threshing floor. Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion, for I
  will make your horn iron, and I will make your hoofs bronze; you shall beat
  in pieces many peoples; and shall devote their gain to the LORD, their
  wealth to the Lord of the whole earth. (ESV)

  James 1:26 - If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his
  tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. (ESV)

48.2. They also have to repent from idolatry

  I Thessalonians 1:9-10 - For they themselves report concerning us the kind
  of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to
  serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he
  raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:14-31 - Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak
  as to sensible people; judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing
  that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread
  that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because
  there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the
  one bread. Consider the people of Israel: are not those who eat the
  sacrifices participants in the altar? What do I imply then? That food
  offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No, I imply that
  what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want
  you to be participants with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord
  and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the
  table of demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger
  than he? All things are lawful, but not all things are helpful. All things
  are lawful, but not all things build up. Let no one seek his own good, but
  the good of his neighbor. Eat whatever is sold in the meat market without
  raising any question on the ground of conscience. For the earth is the
  Lord's, and the fullness thereof. If one of the unbelievers invites you to
  dinner and you are disposed to go, eat whatever is set before you without
  raising any question on the ground of conscience. But if someone says to
  you, This has been offered in sacrifice, then do not eat it, for the sake
  of the one who informed you, and for the sake of conscience— I do not mean
  your conscience, but his. For why should my liberty be determined by
  someone else's conscience? If I partake with thankfulness, why am I
  denounced because of that for which I give thanks? So, whether you eat or
  drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. (ESV)

48.2.1. Idolatry

  Acts 17:29 - Being then God's offspring, we ought not to think that the
  divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art
  and imagination of man. (ESV)

  Romans 1:23 - and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images
  resembling mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles. (ESV)

  Psalms 106:20 - They exchanged the glory of God for the image of an ox that
  eats grass. (ESV)

Book
timothykeller.com: Counterfeit Gods - Timothy Keller

Sermon
youtube.com: Counterfeit Gods - Tim Keller

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

48.3. Jesus is reigning in power over everything - it's all in His control

  Hebrews 2:8 - putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now in
  putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his
  control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him.
  (ESV)

  Ephesians 1:21 - far above all rule and authority and power and dominion,
  and above every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the
  one to come. (ESV)

49. Man is made in the image of God

  Job 33:4 - The Spirit of God has made me, and the breath of the Almighty
  gives me life. (ESV)

49.1. Male and female

  Genesis 1:27 - So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he
  created him; male and female he created them. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:4 - He answered, Have you not read that he who created them from
  the beginning made them male and female, (ESV)

49.2. In God's own likeness

  Genesis 5:1-2 - This is the book of the generations of Adam. When God
  created man, he made him in the likeness of God. Male and female he created
  them, and he blessed them and named them Man when they were created. (ESV)

49.2.1. Righteousness and holiness

  Ephesians 4:24 - and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of
  God in true righteousness and holiness. (ESV)

The new self should be Christ formed in you:

  Colossians 3:5-10 - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. In these you too
  once walked, when you were living in them. But now you must put them all
  away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do
  not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its
  practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge
  after the image of its creator. (ESV)

  Colossians 1:15 - He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of
  all creation. (ESV)

  Galatians 4:18-19 - It is always good to be made much of for a good
  purpose, and not only when I am present with you, my little children, for
  whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth until Christ is formed in you!
  (ESV)

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed Him, “If
  you continue in My word, then you are truly disciples of Mine; and you will
  know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” (NASB)

49.3. Created for God's glory

  Isaiah 43:6-7 - I will say to the north, Give up, and to the south, Do not
  withhold; bring my sons from afar and my daughters from the end of the
  earth, everyone who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, whom
  I formed and made.

49.3.1. Man wasn't designed to kill and curse each other

  Genesis 9:6 - Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be
  shed, for God made man in his own image. (ESV)

  Luke 6:31 - And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them.
  (ESV)

  James 3:9 - With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse
  people who are made in the likeness of God. (ESV)

  Matthew 26:52 - Then Jesus said to him, Put your sword back into its place.
  For all who take the sword will perish by the sword. (ESV)

  I John 3:15 - Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know
  that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. (ESV)

49.4. Jesus Christ, Son of God

  II Corinthians 4:4 - In their case the god of this world has blinded the
  minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel
  of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God.

  John 5:26 - For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the
  Son also to have life in himself.

  John 5:21 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also
  the Son gives life to whom he will.

  John 1:4 - In Him was life, and the life was the Light of men. (ESV)

  John 1:9 - The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the
  world. (ESV)

  Ephesians 3:9-11 - and to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of
  the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things, so that through
  the church the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers
  and authorities in the heavenly places. This was according to the eternal
  purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord,

By him all things were created. Firstborn here does not mean 'created first',
but it means pre-eminent and firstborn of the dead:

  Colossians 1:15-20 - He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of
  all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth,
  visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or
  authorities — all things were created through him and for him. And he is
  before all things, and in him all things hold together. And he is the head
  of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead,
  that in everything he might be preeminent. For in him all the fullness of
  God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all
  things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his
  cross.

youtube.com: Jesus Is Not Just A Prophet Or A Guru @time: 5 min 50 sec

Now, in a natural human birth what's the first part of the body that normally
emerges? The head.

And so in this birth out of death, which is the resurrection, the first part
of the body to emerge was the head.

And when the head emerges, that's the guarantee that the body's going to
follow, see? So He's the head, the firstborn from the dead.

Jesus is before creation:

  Colossians 1:17 - And he is before all things, and in him all things hold
  together. (ESV)

The prophets spoke of Him:

  Exodus 4:22-23 - Then you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says the LORD, Israel
  is my firstborn son, and I say to you, Let my son go that he may serve me.
  If you refuse to let him go, behold, I will kill your firstborn son. (ESV)

  Psalms 2:7 - I will tell of the decree: The LORD said to me, You are my
  Son; today I have begotten you. (ESV)

  Isaiah 7:14-15 - Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold,
  the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
  He shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and
  choose the good. (ESV)

God audibly spoke of Jesus, His Son:

  Luke 9:35 - And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my Son, my
  Chosen One; listen to him! (ESV)

Jesus also claimed to be Christ, the Son of the Blessed One (2128.
eulogétos):

  Mark 14:61-62 - But he remained silent and made no answer. Again the high
  priest asked him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus
  said, I am, and you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of
  Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven. (ESV)

When people say "God can't die, so Jesus is not God" the explanation is that
Jesus conquered and sat down with His Father Jehovah on His throne, and is
the image of God, Father God revealed to us through His Son, and Jesus is the
only way to Father God:

  Colossians 1:15 - He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of
  all creation. (ESV)

Thomas saw God in Jesus Christ, or Jesus Christ as God:

  John 20:28 - Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God! (ESV)

It's very clear that there is some distinction between Father and Son:

  John 20:17 - Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet
  ascended to the Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, I am
  ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. (ESV)

But Jesus Christ is our Mediator:

  I Timothy 2:5 - For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God
  and men, the man Christ Jesus, (ESV)

Jesus still refers to Father God as His God:

  Revelation of John 3:12 - The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in
  the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him
  the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem,
  which comes down from my God out of heaven, and my own new name. (ESV)

I think this really clears things up a little bit:

  Revelation of John 3:21 - The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit
  with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on
  his throne. (ESV)

We serve the Most High God, Jehovah and Jesus Christ who He has sent:

  I Corinthians 8:5-7 - For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or
  on earth — as indeed there are many gods and many lords — yet for us there
  is one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist, and
  one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we
  exist. However, not all possess this knowledge. But some, through former
  association with idols, eat food as really offered to an idol, and their
  conscience, being weak, is defiled. (ESV)

Jesus has defeated death for himself and all who receive eternal life from
Him:

  John 3:16 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. (ESV)

AMEN!!

That's why we can say that Jesus who is God the Son died and defeated death
and sits with His Father who is God the Father, and they are One. We can
still say that God doesn't die because Jesus defeated death:

  Revelation of John 1:18 - and the living one. I died, and behold I am alive
  forevermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades. (ESV)

  Romans 8:11-13 - If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells
  in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to
  your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. So then, brothers,
  we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if
  you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put
  to death the deeds of the body, you will live. (ESV)

  Psalms 16:10 - For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy
  one see corruption. (ESV)

But from the perspective of those currently being sanctified, things may
still seem to be rolling out. Jesus, from His perspective, though has already
won though and defeated first:

  Romans 6:9 - We know that Christ being raised from the dead will never die
  again; death no longer has dominion over him. (ESV)

Death will be destroyed for all those who abide in Jesus:

  I Corinthians 15:26 - The last enemy to be destroyed is death. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:14 - For by a single offering he has perfected for all time
  those who are being sanctified. (ESV)

By faith I believe that Jesus even from my perspective has defeated death
because Jesus will never let me go:

  John 6:37-39 - All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever
  comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven, not to
  do my own will but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him
  who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but
  raise it up on the last day. (ESV)

See this
youtube.com: Derek Prince - Jesus Is Not Just A Prophet Or A Guru

  Isaiah 43:10 - You are my witnesses, declares the LORD, and my servant whom
  I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am
  he. Before me no god was formed, nor shall there be any after me. (ESV)

  Colossians 1:18 - And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the
  beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be
  preeminent. (ESV)

Jesus is pre-eminent, one with God in the beginning:

  John 1:2: He was in the beginning with God.

Being pre-emintent one with God in the beginning, Jesus washes us first.
Jesus acts first that we may abide in Him, that our works may abide in Him:

  John 13:8-10 - Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus
  answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. Simon Peter
  said to him, Lord, not my feet only but also my hands and my head! Jesus
  said to him, The one who has bathed does not need to wash, except for his
  feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not every one of you.
  (ESV)

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

Jesus was birthed from God:

  Psalms 2:7 - I will tell of the decree: The Lord said to me, You are my
  Son; today I have begotten (3205. yalad) you.

|  Strong's Concordance
|  yalad: to bear, bring forth, beget
|  Original Word: ילד
|  Part of Speech: Verb
|  Transliteration: yalad
|  Phonetic Spelling: (yaw-lad')
|  Definition: to bear, bring forth, beget
|  NAS Exhaustive Concordance
|  Word Origin
|   a prim. root
|   Definition
|   to bear, bring forth, beget

  Acts 13:33 - this he has fulfilled to us their children by raising Jesus,
  as also it is written in the second Psalm, You are my Son, today I have
  begotten you.

God is knowable through revealing Himself through Jesus Christ, His eternal
word, even made flesh:

  John 1:18 - No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's
  side, he has made him known. (ESV)

  Hebrews 1:5- For to which of the angels did God ever say, You are my Son,
  today I have begotten you? Or again, I will be to him a father, and he
  shall be to me a son?

  Hebrews 5:5 - So also Christ did not exalt himself to be made a high
  priest, but was appointed by him who said to him, You are my Son, today I
  have begotten you;

  I John 5:20 - And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us
  understanding, so that we may know him who is true; and we are in him who
  is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.

50. The sheepfold

  Psalms 23:4 - Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,
  I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they
  comfort me. (ESV)

When the person starts trusting Jesus they are justified. But they must reach
the end to be saved.

However, I believe that, so long as Jesus knows that you're trusting in Him,
he knows you're His sheep.

The question is, when it is considered they have entered the door and
received eternal life and been saved?

Jesus says a person is saved when they enter the door.

  John 10:9 - I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and
  will go in and out and find pasture. (ESV)

The following verse says they will (when they have eternal life) be unable to
be snatched away from His hand, when they are saved.

  John 10:28 - I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no
  one will snatch them out of my hand. (ESV)

|                                                    ||
|          |     |    |  |     |                     ||
|      Unbelieving    |  | Jesus' voice              ||
|    and disobedient  |  |     |    |                ||
|        goat    |    |  |     |    |   |            || Saved by entering through Jesus
|          |     |    |  |     |    |   |  |        ||||
|          |     |    |  |     |    |   |  | |  Jesus, the good shepherd - John 10:11
|          |     |    |  |     |                Jesus, the Door - John 10:7
|      Trusting--------------------------------------|--->
|   sheep (justifed)   |  |                          ||||     pasture
|           |     |   _|                              ||
|           |     |  / \        Jesus knows his       ||
|       Trusting-----   \   -->     sheep             ||
|   sheep (justifed)     \_/                          ||
|       (wandering)                                   ||
|           |     |                                   ||
|                                                     ||
|                                                     ||    Thief comes to
|       unbelieving          dead works              /||\    steal, kill
|       dead worker --------------------------------- || ->    and destroy
|       (thief/goat)                                  ||       John 10:1, John 10:10

  John 10:7 - So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am
  the door of the sheep. (ESV)

  John 10:1 - Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold
  by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber.
  (ESV)

  John 10:11 - I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life
  for the sheep. (ESV)

It's possible to follow Jesus' voice even before having come to perfect
knowledge and obedience, but Jesus knows His sheep:

  John 10:26-29 - but you do not believe because you are not part of my
  flock. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give
  them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them
  out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all,
  and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. (ESV)

Trust in God (Trusting in God involves trusting God and trusting God enough
to do what He says):

• We should trust in God.
• We should have faith in God.
• We should have faith in Jesus.
• God justifies the one who puts their faith in Jesus, who trusts in Jesus.

Putting faith in Jesus means trusting in Jesus and trusting.

We don't love the Christmas presents more than our parents. Rather, we simply
love our parents and they provide the Christmas presents. Likewise, we trust
in Jesus and we believe that God justifies the one who trusts in Jesus.

The true believers follow Jesus. They are Jesus' sheep, and they keep His
teachings and trust in Him (enough to obey Him penitently):

• trust Jesus
• youtube.com: I trust in God !
• even for their justification
• hear Jesus' voice
• love Him
• follow Him (they're being obedient)
• Jesus knows them

I believe that what this says is that at the point Jesus knows you listen to
His voice and obey His voice, He counts you as one of His sheep and He will
not let you go.

A Psalm of David:

  Psalms 23:1-6 - The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me lie
  down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my
  soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even
  though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no
  evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You
  prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; you anoint my head
  with oil; my cup overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all
  the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.

50.1. The voice of Truth

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

  John 10:27-28 - My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
  me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will
  snatch them out of my hand. (ESV)

  John 15:20 - Remember the word that I said to you: A servant is not greater
  than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If
  they kept my word, they will also keep yours. (ESV)

  I John 4:6 - We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is
  not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and
  the spirit of error. (ESV)

  John 8:46-47 - Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth,
  why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The
  reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. (ESV)

Jesus' friends do what Jesus' commands them. Jesus' friends hear His voice:

  John 3:29 - The one who has the bride is the bridegroom. The friend of the
  bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's
  voice. Therefore this joy of mine is now complete. (ESV)

  John 15:14 - You are my friends if you do what I command you. (ESV)

  John 14:15-17 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. (ESV)

  John 10:5 - A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him,
  for they do not know the voice of strangers. (ESV)

50.2. Sheep vs goats: Sheep inherit the kingdom of God, goats do not

Following Jesus certainly means repenting from, turning away from practicing
sin because Jesus taught that we should. The ones who practice the works of
the flesh will never even enter the kingdom:

  Matthew 5:20 - For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of
  the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
  (ESV)

  I Corinthians 6:9-10 - Do you not know that the unrighteous will not
  inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually
  immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
  nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers
  will inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

Also, obedience means obeying Jesus Christ's commandments on how to love one
another! Following Jesus means obeying Jesus' commandments:

  Matthew 25:26-46 - But his master answered him, You wicked and slothful
  servant! You knew that I reap where I have not sowed and gather where I
  scattered no seed? Then you ought to have invested my money with the
  bankers, and at my coming I should have received what was my own with
  interest. So take the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten
  talents. For to everyone who has will more be given, and he will have an
  abundance. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken
  away. And cast the worthless servant into the outer darkness. In that place
  there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. When the Son of Man comes in
  his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious
  throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate
  people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
  And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. Then
  the King will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my
  Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the
  world. For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me
  drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you clothed
  me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me. Then
  the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry and
  feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger
  and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And when did we see you sick or
  in prison and visit you? And the King will answer them, Truly, I say to
  you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to
  me. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into
  the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry
  and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no drink, I was a
  stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick
  and in prison and you did not visit me. Then they also will answer, saying,
  Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick
  or in prison, and did not minister to you? Then he will answer them,
  saying, Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of
  these, you did not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal
  punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. (ESV)

Sheep:

• Sheep are obedient
• They follow Jesus' commandments
• They are servants
• They practice righteousness, as Jesus did
• They repent and turn away from practicing sin
• They forgive and do not bear a grudge against other family in Christ

Goats:

• Goats are disobedient!

To love your neighbour as yourself means forgiving them too, and remember
that Jesus forgave us. It also means to not take vengeance (Christ's law
includes not rendering evil for evil):

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

51. Marriage

51.1. Marriage is between man and woman

This is the design:

  Genesis 2:22-24 - And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he
  made into a woman and brought her to the man. Then the man said, This at
  last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman,
  because she was taken out of Man. Therefore a man shall leave his father
  and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh.
  (ESV)

Jesus is in agreement with God's design:

  Matthew 19:3-9 - And Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, Is
  it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? He answered, Have you not
  read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female,
  and said, Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold
  fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh? So they are no longer
  two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man
  separate. They said to him, Why then did Moses command one to give a
  certificate of divorce and to send her away? He said to them, Because of
  your hardness of heart Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from
  the beginning it was not so. And I say to you: whoever divorces his wife,
  except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery. (ESV)

51.1.1. Pursue marriage with those who share our faith and walk in holiness

  I Corinthians 7:39 - A wife is bound to her husband as long as he lives.
  But if her husband dies, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only
  in the Lord. (ESV)

51.1.2. Gay 'marriage' is not blessed at all by God

So-called 'marriage' between man and man, or woman and woman, is not blessed
at all by God.

We've got to be clear on that, but like all other corruption/falsehood, if
agreed with and pursued it leads to the abyss.

51.1.3. The law may have come later, but the law still doesn't annul God's
former decrees

  Galatians 3:17 - This is what I mean: the law, which came 430 years
  afterward, does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God, so as to
  make the promise void. (ESV)

 1. Let's be clear: God's law does not endorse gay marriage

  Leviticus 18:22 - You shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is
  an abomination. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 18:12 - for whoever does these things is an abomination to
  the Lord. And because of these abominations the Lord your God is
  driving them out before you. (ESV)

  Leviticus 18:26-29 - But you shall keep my statutes and my rules and do
  none of these abominations, either the native or the stranger who
  sojourns among you (for the people of the land, who were before you,
  did all of these abominations, so that the land became unclean), For
  everyone who does any of these abominations, the persons who do them
  shall be cut off from among their people. (ESV)

  Leviticus 20:13 - If a man lies with a male as with a woman, both of
  them have committed an abomination; they shall surely be put to death;
  their blood is upon them. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 22:5 - A woman shall not wear a man's garment, nor shall a
  man put on a woman's cloak, for whoever does these things is an
  abomination to the Lord your God. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 7:26 - And you shall not bring an abominable thing into
  your house and become devoted to destruction like it. You shall utterly
  detest and abhor it, for it is devoted to destruction. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 44:22 - The Lord could no longer bear your evil deeds and the
  abominations that you committed. Therefore your land has become a
  desolation and a waste and a curse, without inhabitant, as it is this
  day. (ESV)

51.1.4. However, we are justified by faith in Jesus Christ - but that means
obeying Jesus

  Galatians 3:22-26 - But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so
  that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who
  believe. Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law,
  imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then, the law was
  our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by
  faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian, for
  in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith.

If we are merciful then we will receive mercy:

  Matthew 5:7 - Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.

  James 2:13 - For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy.
  Mercy triumphs over judgment.

Jesus' servants are given mercy by Jesus and they also show mercy to others.

Grace and truth have come through Jesus Christ:

  John 1:17 - For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came
  through Jesus Christ.

51.2. Marriage should not be forbidden

If you know why I'm writing this, there's some people I have already forgiven
about stuff to do with me and a certain marriage proposal. But I have
forgiven them, and I believe it's best to put Jesus first and to have no
idols before or besides Him, and I believe that marriage or a spouse can be
an idol, and in my case it was.

  Colossians 1:18 - And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the
  beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be
  preeminent. (ESV)

  Luke 14:28-33 - For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first
  sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it?
  Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who
  see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able
  to finish. Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war, will
  not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand to
  meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand? And if not, while the
  other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of
  peace. So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has
  cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

I know I was pretty messed up at the time and I'm not without any guilt, and
my theology was quite warped. While I believe Kingdom marriage could be a
thing, I also believe that we should still not allow anything or anyone to be
held up as an idol before or alongside Father God, or before or alongside our
Saviour and God Jesus Christ:

  Luke 14:26 - If anyone comes to me and does not hate (miseo) his own father
  and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even
  his own life, he cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

The Hebrew has two words for 'helper'. The word which the greek in John 14
refers to I believe is the Saviour one:

|  מושיע
|  savior, deliverer, helper, saviour

But the Hebrew for helper in Genesis 2:18 is not the 'saviour' but the
assistant!:

|  עוזר
|  assistant, aide, helper, second

  Genesis 2:18 - Then the Lord (H3068 Yhovah) God (H430 'elohiym) said (H559
  'amar), “It is not good (H2896 towb) for the man (H120 'adam) to be alone
  (H905 bad); I will make (H6213 `asah) him a helper (H5828 `ezer) suitable
  (H5048 neged) for him.”

Jesus saved me from a bad situation and I just want those who come to read
this or hear my testimony to come to know the Lord Jesus for themself.

I forgive everyone.

  1 Timothy 4:1-8 - Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some
  will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and
  teachings of demons, through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are
  seared, who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God
  created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the
  truth. For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected
  if it is received with thanksgiving, for it is made holy by the word of God
  and prayer. If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a good
  servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of the faith and of the
  good doctrine that you have followed. Have nothing to do with irreverent,
  silly myths. Rather train yourself for godliness; for while bodily training
  is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise
  for the present life and also for the life to come. (ESV)

  Colossians 1:16 - For by him all things were created, in heaven and on
  earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or
  authorities—all things were created through him and for him. (ESV)

51.2.1. Marriage is good

<2024-07-24 Wed>
I forgive everyone. I've been under stress. I'm just seeking peace with God
currently and sanctification, and no more spiritual attack / fiery trial /
testing. I'm just trying to get to the finish line. I don't know everything.
It's above my head. I just feel like a foot soldier in God's army, not the
General. I hold no grudges towards anyone, and I'm confident that God will
restore me in His own way.

I really think that the fruit of the Spirit is desirable in marriage and for
choosing a marriage partner but what's essential is that the love has the
characteristics of Christ's love. What I mean is, just because there is joy
for the person wanting to propose, that's still not good enough because it's
even more important that they are showing Christ's love. If the love produced
as the fruit of the Spirit is truly Christ's love then that should comply
with Christ's law. What I mean is, we have to bear our burdens and when it
comes to spouses we need to be willing to bear theirs too.

We must love our wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for
her. We must love as Christ loved us:

  Ephesians 5:25-33 - Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church
  and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed
  her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the
  church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing,
  that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way husbands should
  love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
  For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just
  as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore a
  man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the
  two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, and I am saying that
  it refers to Christ and the church. However, let each one of you love his
  wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. (ESV)

But choosing the right person to marry rightly should desirably mean
exhibiting such things as the fruit of the Spirit, in my opinion because it's
much easier to not sin when exhibiting the fruit of the Spirit:

  Galatians 5:22-23 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love (G26 agape), joy,
  peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness,
  self-control; against such things there is no law. (ESV)

But when choosing a wife, we must walk by the Spirit, and that includes
bearing one another's burdens. This is also made plainly evident in Ephesians
| 25-33:

  Galatians 5:15-17 - But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that
  you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you
  will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are
  against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh,
  for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you
  want to do. (ESV)

Regarding making a marriage proposal after getting born-again: The fruit of
the Spirit, while lawful, are not enough to justify marrying a person. Also,
only Jesus was perfect. Christ's law must be followed rather than using the
fruit of the Spirit to as an excuse to self-justify; Bearing your neighbours
burdens, and awaiting God to provide, because God is the justifier, not us.
We can't force someone to marry us, but we must die to self and give ourself
up for our wife:

  Romans 3:23 - for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, (ESV)

Being led by the spirit involves following Christ's law. To be married to the
right person makes it far easier to not sin. Yes, yielding the fruit of the
Spirit, but also necessarily walking by the Spirit:

  Galatians 5:13-16 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not
  use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve
  one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch
  out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the
  Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. (ESV)

If we are led by the spirit (if we're serving Jesus Christ, seeking
justification through faith in Jesus Christ) then we are not under the Mosaic
law:

  Galatians 5:18-21 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  law. Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity,
  sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger,
  rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things
  like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such
  things will not inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

Now while we may have faith, hoping, even having a conviction for something
which God may not have directly told us about (such as a marriage),
ultimately God may approve or deny it:

  Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen. (ESV)

We should put our faith in God, and in God's promises:

  Mark 11:22 - And Jesus answered them, Have faith in God.

In the case of the marriage proposal I made, I must hold faith in God which
includes obedience to Jesus' command to love one another the way He loved us,
and this is reflected in Paul's commandment to love your wife as Christ loves
the church, so at the end of the day I have to demonstrate Christ's love
which is ultimately obedient and faithful to Jesus:

  Philippians 2:8 - And being found in human form, he humbled himself by
  becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. (ESV)

  Hebrews 13:12-14 - So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to
  sanctify the people through his own blood. Therefore let us go to him
  outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured. For here we have no
  lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. (ESV)

In my situation I had to put faithfulness to Jesus over faithfulness to the
girl I wanted to marry and I had to die a death, carrying my cross, and to be
faithful to Jesus first and foremost, and it was not fun, and it felt like in
my case I was led to kill my Isaac on the altar. I'm a little bit confused
about why I was drawn into this situation, but I believe the reasons will be
in part that I was attacked by the enemy after being born-again, but God has
been using me as I have confidence before God because I've been keeping
Jesus' sayings and commandments. God sees it all. I think God just has been
working on me as a disciple in the kingdom:

  Luke 14:33 - So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he
  has cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

  John 15:8 - By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so
  prove to be my disciples. (ESV)

  John 12:24-26 - Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls
  into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much
  fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this
  world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, he must follow
  me; and where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the
  Father will honor him. (ESV)

But I know it was painful. But I was tested on relationship idolatry /
faithfulness to Jesus. God tested me, actually, like He did with Abraham:

  Ephesians 5:25-33 - Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church
  and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed
  her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the
  church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing,
  that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way husbands should
  love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
  For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just
  as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore a
  man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the
  two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, and I am saying that
  it refers to Christ and the church. However, let each one of you love his
  wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. (ESV)

I'm a little bit confused at it all, but I will keep following Jesus.

We have the right to take a believing wife:

  I Corinthians 9:5 - Do we not have the right to take along a believing
  wife, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?
  (ESV)

We live in a time where people deny marriage:

  I Timothy 4:1-3 - Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some
  will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and
  teachings of demons, through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are
  seared, who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God
  created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the
  truth. (ESV)

The asceticism [of denying marriage] has no value in stopping the indulgence
of the flesh:

  Colossians 2:18-23 - Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and
  worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without
  reason by his sensuous mind, and not holding fast to the Head, from whom
  the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and
  ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God. If with Christ you died to
  the elemental spirits of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the
  world, do you submit to regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not
  touch (referring to things that all perish as they are used)—according to
  human precepts and teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in
  promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but
  they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. (ESV)

We must keep and accept the precepts of God over the precepts of men:

  Mark 7:6-9 - And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you
  hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but
  their heart is far from me; in vain do they worship me, teaching as
  doctrines the commandments of men. You leave the commandment of God and
  hold to the tradition of men. And he said to them, You have a fine way of
  rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition!
  (ESV)

This passage is condemning submitting to worldly / human precepts and
imploring us to submit to God's precepts. It's not condemning God's precepts
but imploring us to put to death what is against God's precepts:

  Colossians 2:20-23,3:1-6 - If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits
  of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit
  to regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch (referring to
  things that all perish as they are used)—according to human precepts and
  teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made
  religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value
  in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. If then you have been raised with
  Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the
  right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things
  that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ
  in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear
  with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: The Battle for Sexual Purity

Marriage itself is good. So denying it for reasons of self-made religion /
worldly precepts actually causes harm because it's not the truth.

Abraham was 10 years older than Sarah!

  Genesis 17:17 - Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed and said to
  himself, Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? Shall
  Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child? (ESV)

I feel like I have had very obvious spiritual resistance a lot of the time,
for whatever reason. Maybe I've had trouble because in the past I have had
trouble with pornography:

  Colossians 1:13-14 - He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and
  transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have
  redemption, the forgiveness of sins. (ESV)

Light and darkness do not gel:

  I Corinthians 10:21 - You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of
  demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of
  demons. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 9:5 - Do we not have the right to take along a believing
  wife, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?
  (ESV)

  II Corinthians 6:14 - Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what
  partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has
  light with darkness? (ESV)

This is why light and darkness do not go together because the whole point is
to turn away from darkness:

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness
  of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. (ESV)

Another reason would be that there is resistance to be expected when wanting
to live faithfully to God in Christ, and I was being saved, and the devil
didn't want me to be saved, and wanted to keep me in darkness, and in
hopelessness, and not in the freedom of Jesus' Spirit:

  II Timothy 3:12 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, (ESV)

  Romans 15:13 - May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in
  believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope.
  (ESV)

I feel like sometimes demon spirits deny relationships that would be good.

For example:

• worldly spirit through a person telling me I need to be financially
successful first, or
• a spirit of slander or gossip which keeps me isolated, or a
rejection-spirit spreading gossip/slander among people around me,
creating social anxiety, making it hard to socialise with people who
would be good to talk to, or
• spirits of gossip and slander, fear, disunity, grudges, antichrist,
anti-Christ's-love, unforgiveness
• Being kicked out of churches for following Jesus and obeying Jesus'
commandments, for example. We should certainly not withhold people
from attending churches especially if they are doing good and
wanting to learn from Jesus and follow Jesus. If they're opposing
Jesus, that's a different story:
• III John 1:10-11 - So if I come, I will bring up what he is
doing, talking wicked nonsense against us. And not content with
that, he refuses to welcome the brothers, and also stops those
who want to and puts them out of the church. Beloved, do not
imitate evil but imitate good. Whoever does good is from God;
whoever does evil has not seen God. (ESV)
• a spiritual sex attack or a spirit spouse which thinks it's my spouse
• youtube.com: Prayer Against Spiritual Spouse
• https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/spiritual-sex-attackpt-1-rev-chika-ossai-ugbah-ph-d
<- Or something like this.
• wicked spirits through other people pressuring me into using AI-fiction
to apply for jobs
• dreams at night affirming what I've disaffirmed for the sake of following
Jesus and remaining faithful to Jesus
• Matthew 24:12-13 - And because lawlessness will be increased, the
love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will
be saved. (ESV)
• The marriage proposal I made I did in a good conscience. I've
reneged on it. A born-again Christian can propose to me if she
wants.
• if all of the above spirits start manifesting

And as far as forsaking God's precepts for worldly precepts go, the truth is
that while in God's favour, God provides, and we cooperate with God by
working, etc.

  Psalms 66:18 - If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not
  have listened. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:21-6:1 - For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no
  sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Working
  together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God
  in vain. (ESV)

But if God doesn't want you to get a job at a particular time, you wont get a
job, etc. and that goes for other things such as relationships.

  Acts 16:6 - And they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having
  been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia. (ESV)

  Philippians 4:19 - And my God will supply every need of yours according to
  his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:33 - But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and
  all these things will be added to you. (ESV)

God's precept isn't that the rich are the only ones who are allowed to marry.
Otherwise robots will be taking human wives before the poor are allowed to
marry. I'm a Christian not a transhumanist. We've got to stick to God's
precepts and go against the world:

  II Timothy 3:12 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, (ESV)

  John 15:19 - If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own;
  but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world,
  therefore the world hates you. (ESV)

We have to obey God. Jesus commandment is to give to the one that asks. If I
had to choose between obeying Jesus and holding onto lots of money so I could
get a wife, then it is the latter which is actually stealing, and stealing
from God:

  Matthew 5:42 - Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one
  who would borrow from you. (ESV)

And Jesus encourages us to have obedient faith in Him even to the point, even
to the point where it gets difficult - no pain, no gain!

  Mark 12:41-44 - And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the
  people putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large
  sums. And a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a
  penny. And he called his disciples to him and said to them, Truly, I say to
  you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to
  the offering box. For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she
  out of her poverty has put in everything she had, all she had to live on.
  (ESV)

We are walking by faith, and not sight, and to walk by faith is to actually
see clearly, where to not walk in faith is actually to walk in darkness:

  II Corinthians 5:7 - for we walk by faith, not by sight. (ESV)

  Psalms 119:105 - Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
  (ESV)

If satan keeps delaying and blocking my relationships until seeking a
relationship with someone who would be good for me has become 'socially
unacceptable', then only God can save me. Worldly people wont understand.

  John 10:10 - The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came
  that they may have life and have it abundantly. (ESV)

The Bible doesn't say that marriage among consenting adults with large age
gap is immoral or forbidden [in itself], as far as I understand, although I
need to do a more comprehensive Bible study and perhaps pray about it. But
thus far I haven't found anything and God hasn't said anything against it to
me as far as I know. Gay marriage, however, is not blessed at all.

While I agree that lust, and impure motivations disqualify a relationship
being seen as Biblically acceptable, there are certain things I think are not
intrinsically wrong, such as marriage between consenting adults with an age
gap.

Worldly people will always discriminate against people who desire to live
according to the Bible, and I don't mean obeying the law by works but by
obeying it in faith:

  II Timothy 3:12-13 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, while evil people and impostors will go on from
  bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. (ESV)

And worldly people will endorse worldly things like:

• having promiscuous relationships, messing around with age-gaps, and
out-of-marriage relationships saying it's ok because it's not a serious
relationship, and
• endorsing gay marriage, etc. or whatever they can imagine

while worldly people will discriminate against:

• age-gap marriage between consenting adults
• people who are actually obeying God

I have a very similar opinion to John Piper on this I think:

• Can I Marry a Woman Half My Age? | Desiring God

Also, I won't accept accusations or condemnation from the enemy while I'm
trying to do the will of God, being obedient to Jesus Christ:

  Galatians 5:18 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  law. (ESV)

But if you think I'm wrong then please help correct me but please back it up
with Scripture because I want to be sanctified by the Truth.

And even if I sin from time to time, especially as a consequence of being in
a difficult situation due to persecution, I won't accept accusations or
condemnation for that, because I'm [trying to] follow Jesus, and I accept the
need for repentance and correction:

  Galatians 2:17 - But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too
  were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not!
  (ESV)

I'm trying to side with Jesus over issues regarding the evil which is still
present in the world and "hate the sin, not the sinner", and starting by
first taking a look at my own problems but by no means endorsing sinful
things even things I consider I do which are sinful, I don't endorse them for
myself either:

  John 7:6-8 - Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is
  always here. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify
  about it that its works are evil. You go up to the feast. I am not going up
  to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come. (ESV)

Also, I stress this verse again because if you're obeying God then the Mosaic
law isn't meant for others to use it against you to condemn you. Literally,
if your heart's in the right place, and you're being obedient to Jesus Christ
then it's wrong for people to slap you with the Mosaic law:

  Galatians 5:18 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  law. (ESV)

  1 Timothy 1:8-11 - Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it
  lawfully, understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just
  but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the
  unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for
  murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers,
  liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine, in
  accordance with the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have
  been entrusted. (ESV)

Not that I was or am perfect, but I have been following Jesus so I claim to
be on Jesus' side. By the grace of God He made me born-again, washed,
regenerated and filled with the Holy Spirit in 2022 after I had begun to
repent and seek Jesus.

For many years before that I've had what I've felt was unreasonably
difficulty with relationships, but it's after I was born-again and actively
following Jesus that I was denied my first ever marriage proposal, and it was
very obvious to me that what I have been fighting is an
antichrist/antirelationship/slander spirit attacking me after I was
born-again (only now I could easily see it working through people) and
probably long before that, and I feel like the spiritual attack (i.e. spirit
spouse, LGBT dreams etc., thrown out of churches) I have received as a
fallout for choosing Jesus, and endeavouring to abide by Christ's law,
instead of using the documented fact I was born-again as an excuse to plead
not-guilty in court, I feel like has damaged me spiritually in ways which I
have not experienced before, so I need Jesus to keep washing me as I try to
be obedient to Him and be corrected by the Word of God.

Before I was born-again I had in the past believed the lie that I need to
have money and assets before I can have a wife but I no longer believe that
lie, and I refuse to accept that lie. Jesus Christ is enough qualification
for me:

star.net.nz: You are qualified!

We should certainly not withhold people from attending churches especially if
they are doing good and wanting to learn from Jesus and follow Jesus. If
they're opposing Jesus, that's a different story:

  III John 1:10-11 - So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking
  wicked nonsense against us. And not content with that, he refuses to
  welcome the brothers, and also stops those who want to and puts them out of
  the church. Beloved, do not imitate evil but imitate good. Whoever does
  good is from God; whoever does evil has not seen God. (ESV)

  Romans 14:17-18 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever
  thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. (ESV)

The way I chose was based on truth and joy and being at peace. And the fact
of the matter is that while I had faith I had joy and peace and could just
focus on being productive and working, and when the fruit of the spirit is
gone what is left but sadness and depression and filling the void with the
wrong stuff. I personally do not think that having love for someone is
mutually exclusive from being led by the Spirit, nor from serving Jesus, but
that Jesus must be number 1.

  Galatians 5:16 - But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify
  the desires of the flesh. (ESV)

  Genesis 2:18 - Then the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should
  be alone; I will make him a helper fit for him. (ESV)

Then the devil probably said, "It is not good that man should be allowed to
marry the person God made for him, because then he wont feel the need to have
any of my false sinful substitutes." But the situation is probably more
complicated than that, and I can't see everything and I wasn't perfect so,
yeah.

Jesus is perfect though.

I'm not upset with people, but I'm upset that I feel broken and as if I am in
a world of lies as a result of following Jesus, and like I had to kill the
marriage proposal to put Jesus first, and I'm grieved. I feel like Abraham if
he was to actually kill Isaac on the Altar, and God didn't intervene.

I want it to stay in God's court (until I am sanctified and delivered)
because I feel like I have tried my best to remain faithful to God, and now I
need full deliverance and I want to be completely cleaned and made whole, and
instead of being rescued it's been as if satan has kept me in a chokehold and
daily I experience these antichrist dreams and visions at night time.
Obviously it's spiritual oppression which I am fight against, and that has
manifested too with the actual church attacking me:

  II Timothy 2:21-22 - Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is
  dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy,
  useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. So flee
  youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along
  with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. (ESV)

I've been getting pounded with antichrist dreams, voices and prodings during
my sleep daily for well over a year, and have often found myself being tested
throughout the day and I've been using the Bible to fight back and defend
against it and trying to be obedient to Jesus.

It helps when I am pro-active and pray to God before bed asking Him for a
good night's rest and also leave prayers and scriptures written down next to
or on me when I sleep.

All of that spiritual attack I have received pales in comparison to the
depression from having my joy taken from me.

What I'm experiencing is certainly not the kingdom of God, and the Holy
Spirit certainly doesn't steal kill and destroy.

Jesus' sacrifice outside Jerusalem is so that we might be sanctified through
His own blood and come into Jerusalem. I still think that there's nothing
wrong with bearing the reproach Jesus endured - in fact it's encouraged. I
think we bear His reproach in order to be sanctified and then call Jerusalem
our home:

  Hebrews 13:12-14 - So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to
  sanctify the people through his own blood. Therefore let us go to him
  outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured. For here we have no
  lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. (ESV)

I'm going to claim this:

Read
ligonier.org: Outside the Camp | Reformed Bible Studies & Devotionals at
Ligonier.org | Reformed Bible Studies & Devotionals at Ligonier.org

  I Peter 4:12-13 - Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it
  comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to
  you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may
  also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. (ESV)

Being a disciple of Jesus means bearing His reproach:

  John 16:2 - They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is
  coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God.
  (ESV)

Count the cost:

  Luke 14:28,29 - For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first
  sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it?
  Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who
  see it begin to mock him, (ESV)

I pray Jesus continues to wash me, and for the grace to be sanctified and for
ultimate deliverance from demonic harassment:

  Romans 4:7-8 - Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and
  whose sins are covered; blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not
  count his sin. (ESV)

I pray that God will not count sin done in my brokenness.

Trusting Him means having faith in Him, obeying, believing in God and having
the fear of God, believing, following, yielding to Jesus. Ungodly here means
wicked or behaviour not in accordance with the knowledge of God. Only God can
justify the ungodly, so that's why by following Him, knowing we can be
ungodly, we have the hope of God justifying us:

  Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts (G4100 pisteuo)
  him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, (ESV)

This qualifies:

  Luke 18:13 - But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift
  up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me,
  a sinner! (ESV)

The most important thing in my opinion is that everyone involved comes out
healed, delivered, sanctified and wise to salvation, and freed from sin and
saved from death, so the key I think is to choose forgiveness and bear our
cross. I'm prepared and committed to doing that:

  Ecclesiastes 7:2 - It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go
  to the house of feasting, for this is the end of all mankind, and the
  living will lay it to heart. (ESV)

This is what I want for myself (I'm concerned about living the Christian life
now which involves being a 'living sacrifice' for God, and allowing God to
sanctify my mind and body, not 'exchanging the grace of God for a single
meal'):

  Hebrews 12:16-17 - that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who
  sold his birthright for a single meal. For you know that afterward, when he
  desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to
  repent, though he sought it with tears. (ESV)

Jesus has set me free, and there's no condemnation for those who are in
Christ, but we should have a response of love for Jesus, and live to serve
Jesus, and it's very, very important to embrace sanctification, and to put a
stop to willful sin.

desiringgod.org: The High Cost of Sexual Sin | Desiring God
I'm trying to explode the doctrine that the battle for obedience is optional
because only faith is necessary for salvation. This is very tricky the way
words are used here. The battle for obedience is absolutely necessary for
salvation because it is the fight of faith. The battle for obedience is
absolutely necessary for getting to heaven because it is the battle against
unbelief. It is the fight of faith. There are not two battles: one to get
yourself saved by a single act of faith, and the other to collect rewards by
work. There is only one battle - it's the one that gets you started, it's the
one that gets you there, and it's the fight of faith not works! Faith is what
severs the root of covetousness, misplaced shame, anxiety, lust, envy, and
six more before we are done this year. There is one warfare, and it is the
warfare of faith.

AMEN!! If only someone had told me this first. We're saved from walking in
evil ways that we might repent from sin and the blood of Jesus helps us to do
that.

  Ephesians 4:17 - Now this I say and testify in the Lord, that you must no
  longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their minds. (ESV)

It's a serious act of treason when you love other things more than God; When
you love something else more than God, and do not obey God, and do not
believe God and do not turn from doing the will of satan to doing the will of
God:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

We are instructed to do good, and to stop doing evil. We're supposed to
repent from doing evil:

  Romans 2:5-11 - But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are
  storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous
  judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his
  works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and
  immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking
  and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath
  and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who
  does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor and peace
  for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows
  no partiality. (ESV)

We must love the light which Jesus has shone into the world, and we must
prefer to do good over evil. We must to practice the truth. We must agree
with doing good rather than with doing evil:

  John 3:19-21 - And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world,
  and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their deeds
  were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not
  come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed. But whoever does what
  is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his deeds
  have been carried out in God. (ESV)

I also believe that in order to be saved after being born-again for 2 years I
do not need to become as skilled a theologian as John Piper, say, in order to
be saved from the wrath of God. I only need to obey Jesus. I simply do not
need 33 years of experience in the area of theology to be saved from the
wrath of God. I only have about 5 months of Bible studying.

We must embrace sanctification, and be slaves of God, obeying God, obeying
righteousness:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

  Romans 6:20-23 - When you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to
  righteousness. But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things
  of which you are now ashamed? The end of those things is death. But now
  that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the
  fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the
  wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ
  Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

I do believe that now. After receiving the Holy Spirit, we must use the
spirit to put sin to death, and stop willfully sinning. Committing sin
against our own bodies is very, very unwise:

  Romans 8:13 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if
  by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. (ESV)

I still hold no grudges, but still going through sanctification, which I
guess may be a life-long process. Forgiving everyone is a key to deliverance,
according to Derek Prince.

If the spirit spouse stuff is actually related to leftover sin in the
body/mind/soul-realm, then I'm this serious at this point with my reasoning,
because I'm serious about sanctification, and I'm serious about living:

youtube.com: Free from Judgment, Fighting Sin, Full Assurance

  Romans 7:22-8:2 - For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being, but I
  see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and
  making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Wretched man
  that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of death? Thanks be to God
  through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself serve the law of God with
  my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. There is therefore now
  no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the
  Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and
  death. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:29-30 - If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and
  throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that
  your whole body be thrown into hell (1067. geenna). And if your right hand
  causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you
  lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 5:5 - you are to deliver this man to Satan for the
  destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the
  Lord. (ESV)

Quote by John Piper
"You can't cast one devil out and leave the cravings of your heart empty -
seven will return. You must fill your life with God, the glory and excellency
of God."

51.2.2. We should not be thieves and robbers

What I mean is we should not steal from God, even when Jesus has made us
born-again and baptised in the Holy Spirit, in a situation like the one I
faced in court in 2022-2023 we have to remain faithful to Jesus and to sound
doctrine, and obediently be corrected by the Word in sanctification.

  John 10:1 - Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold
  by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber.
  (ESV)

  Malachi 3:8-10 - Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, How
  have we robbed you? In your tithes and contributions. You are cursed with a
  curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you. Bring the full
  tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. And thereby
  put me to the test, says the LORD of hosts, if I will not open the windows
  of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more
  need. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:10 - the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality,
  enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound
  doctrine, (ESV)

  Titus 1:9 - He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught, so that he
  may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also to rebuke those
  who contradict it. (ESV)

livingproof.co: John 10:10 | What Did Jesus Mean by "Abundant Life"? -
Abundant Life

  John 10:10 - The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came
  that they may have life and have it abundantly. (ESV)

  John 10:1,4,7-9 - Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the
  sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and
  a robber. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the
  sheep follow him, for they know his voice. So Jesus again said to them,
  Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before
  me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the
  door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and
  find pasture. (ESV)

  John 8:44 - You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your
  father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to
  do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he
  speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
  (ESV)

51.2.3. I want to get married but continue in sanctification first - that's the
conflict - I don't want to bring any ongoing issues into marriage

I want to continue in the process of sanctification, and holiness in body and
spirit. But I feel like I'm made for marriage. And I feel like loneliness and
isolation have been a cause of problems for me. The conflict is I wouldn't
want to be married unless I was feeling totally cleaned up, and have
everything under control, and I want to continue being cleaned up for a
while:

  I Corinthians 7:33-35 - But the married man is anxious about worldly
  things, how to please his wife, and his interests are divided. And the
  unmarried or betrothed woman is anxious about the things of the Lord, how
  to be holy in body and spirit. But the married woman is anxious about
  worldly things, how to please her husband. I say this for your own benefit,
  not to lay any restraint upon you, but to promote good order and to secure
  your undivided devotion to the Lord. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 9:25-27 - Every athlete exercises self-control in all things.
  They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable. So I do
  not run aimlessly; I do not box as one beating the air. But I discipline my
  body and keep it under control, lest after preaching to others I myself
  should be disqualified. (ESV)

51.2.4. Choosing a marriage partner in the Lord Jesus and who loves the Lord
Jesus

At this point I just am thankful that Jesus has saved my life, and has been
sanctifying me. That's what matters. I kinda want to just develop my
relationship with Jesus right now. I desire that for anyone.

  Romans 6:4 - We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in
  order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the
  Father, we too might walk in newness of life. (ESV)

I somewhat disagree with Mari saying that the book of Proverbs teaches
[strictly] earthly wisdom, and not heavenly wisdom because I think there is a
lot of heavenly wisdom in there. But I find the rest of this quote helpful.

Quote from Mar Mari Emmanuel

Whenever there is a couple coming for marital counseling, I always refer to
the Book of Proverbs (King Solomon) chapter 31, verse 10. Book of Proverbs,
31 which is the last chapter, and it's verse 10.

Now the Book of Proverbs teaches you wisdom on earth, not in heaven, on earth
- teaches you wisdom.

So when you go to Chapter 31:10 of Proverbs King Solomon with the wisdom
which he received from God himself he says, "A virtuous woman, who can find?"

And then he continues the same verse and says for her price exceeds the
precious pearls or stones. "A virtuous woman who can find?"

And I say this to that couple, "My son and my daughter, this verse, we divide
into two parts:

• the first part is for the man,
• and the second part is for the woman.

So my dear son, you are looking for a girl to marry. Look for a girl that is
virtuous."

Now what does the word virtuous mean? It literally means "fearing the Lord".

What is fearing the Lord means? Loving the Lord.

When you come looking for a girl in marriage, you better look for the girl
that loves Jesus Christ of Nazareth, because the day you find a girl loving
the Lord Jesus, don't never fear that girl, she can never be bad to you,
because the Lord who is in her heart will teach her to be good and nothing
else.

Yes, you look for looks, it's okay to a certain degree, but don't ever focus
on the external looks, focus on the internal looks, see first and foremost
where is her heart? Is it with the Lord, or is it with the world? If she is
with the world, not a good choice.

And how do you find out? The first time you meet that girl, ask her, say, "I
go to church, what do you think of that? Will you come with me? If she says,
nah, don't pretend you're a saint and you're going to convert her, because
there is a very big chance she will convert you and take you away from
Christ."

|  Dear Heavenly Father,
|  I ask that everyone who is involved  or reading this (without naming names),
|  that they entrust themselves to Jesus Christ, place their faith in Jesus
|  and stay strong in their faith in Jesus. No matter how anything works out.
|  That's my desire that, I do not hurt anyone but that they come to faith in Jesus.
|  So I pray that whatever happens, our faith is in Jesus now and ongoingly.
|  In Jesus Christ's name I ask,
|  AMEN!!

The New Covenant is much better than the first covenant, so I'm sure Jesus is
enough to sanctify me completely:

  I Thessalonians 5:23 - Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you
  completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless
  at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

The obvious thing to do right now when my dreams / visions and circumstances
are giving me ambiguous and unclear stuff is to do is just choose Jesus, to
not lose faith in Jesus, because keeping faith with Jesus is the most
important thing. We're getting married to Jesus after all.

  I Corinthians 7:29-31 - This is what I mean, brothers: the appointed time
  has grown very short. From now on, let those who have wives live as though
  they had none, and those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and
  those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing, and those who buy as
  though they had no goods, and those who deal with the world as though they
  had no dealings with it. For the present form of this world is passing
  away. (ESV)

  John 14:23 - Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word,
  and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with
  him. (ESV)

51.2.5. It's extremely important to respect the institution of marriage, and of
marriage proposal

I believe that outlawing marriage proposal is very close to outlawing God.

I believe that it should be normalised that Christians should feel
comfortable proposing or being betrothed without first needing to have a job
or own a house.

What I mean by betrothed is being able to express commitment to the person
who a person has decided they want to marry:

  I Corinthians 7:37-38 - But whoever is firmly established in his heart,
  being under no necessity but having his desire under control, and has
  determined this in his heart, to keep her as his betrothed, he will do
  well. So then he who marries his betrothed does well, and he who refrains
  from marriage will do even better. (ESV)

What I mean by this, is "having a job" or "owning a house" must never become
a prerequisite to a Christian to being allowed to marry or at least to being
"betrothed" (people should be allowed to propose and given a chance even if
they have no assets, and no job).

youtube.com: Why 'I Can't Afford Kids' Misses the Point

If you're going to follow Christ you have to turn off the voice of the world.
You can't care about what Jesus says and also what the devil says. You can't
respect the words of the gospel and also give authority to the words of this
world.

Allowing God to determine the question if you're going to have many children
or or few children… We're not like rabbits where you're going to have 30
children - that's not how it is. That's what the seculars want you to think.
That's not the case. Some people can't conceive it all, and then the Lord
works a miracle and they have a child and everyone rejoices - if I could tell
you how many times I've seen the Lord take a family in my Parish that was
told by the doctors it's impossible and then he gives them a child and
sometimes two, and sometimes more. It is such a shot of joy in into the life
of the church and to have to have children and to love them and to accept
those responsibilities.

"Having God" is a much better prerequisite.

youtube.com: Christ is Enough - Hillsong Worship | LYRIC VIDEO
Christ is enough for me. Everything I need is in You.

We shouldn't fight against God by making Him out to be not enough because God
is all we need, and at the start of a marriage, it should really be founded
on that type of faith.

Opinionated statements:

  Otherwise, at its essence, getting marriage security from a job is
  essentially encouraging prostitution and divorce. To make a person think
  they need money or a job before they can marry is to attack their faith.
  Satan can use money and his servants (anyone who isn't doing the will of
  God) to control people and manipulate marriage, and would rather see
  chatbots and robots marrying' human beings, open-marriage, interspecies,
  whatever, and satan would prefer more and more child trafficking as there
  is increasing wealth inequality. Following Jesus would increasingly mean
  not being able to marry because no-one would marry a poor person, even
  someone who obeyed Jesus command to give their possessions to those in need
  and follow Him, and I believe that to get marriage security through a job
  or through material possessions, is an attack against God's design and is
  faithless to God at its very essence and sets the stage for a divorce when
  there is a financial crisis because trust must be in God not money, and
  it's best to establish that trust in God at the very beginning.

Sermon :: youtube.com: The Battle for Sexual Purity

And it came out that he was fasting and praying to Satan, and the
conversation went on and the discovery was made that what this person was
fasting and praying for was the destruction of ministers' marriages.

Now if if you were a Satan worshipper and you wanted to know what to pray to
your father in hell, what's his will?

Where would you go to find out go?

• to the Bible because the Bible is True.

The Bible tells you Truly what Satan is about in the world.

And you go to the Bible, and what you find in 1 Corinthians 7 [is] that Satan
with all his might is in favor of adultery and against fidelity.

No wonder then that Satan worshippers are making their aim to pray for that
sort of thing.

Learn from the scriptures this morning that when you battle sexual temptation
you battle Satan, a cosmic power who wants your soul.

Never forget however, in conclusion, that the Son of God came into the world
to destroy the works of the devil.

And there is a way to resist, and I close with commending this to you all,
married and single.

1 Thessalonians 4:3-5 contains a key for what I think is the way out of
bondage to the abuses of sexual desire.

Paul says there "this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you
abstain from immorality that each one of you knows how to take a wife for
himself in holiness and honor, not in passion of lust like the heathens do
who do not know God." You see the key one kind of person governs his life by
the lust of fleshly passions.

Another person governs his life by holiness and honor.

What's the difference?

Whether you know God or not is the difference.

I mean, know God, not know about God, know God.

Paul said in Romans 1:28 "since they did not approve to have God in their
knowledge, He gave them up to a debased mind and improper conduct." You see
the connection?

He said in Galatians 4:8, "formerly, when you did not know God you were in
bondage to beings that by nature are not gods." In other words, the antidote
the liberating force from the bondage of Satan in the area of sexual desire
is to know God.

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

  Job 22:24-26 - if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the
  stones of the torrent bed, then the Almighty will be your gold and your
  precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and
  lift up your face to God. (ESV)

  Proverbs 7:1-3 - My son, keep my words and treasure up my commandments with
  you; keep my commandments and live; keep my teaching as the apple of your
  eye; bind them on your fingers; write them on the tablet of your heart.
  (ESV)

  Luke 12:15 - And he said to them, Take care, and be on your guard against
  all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his
  possessions. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:21 - For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
  (ESV)

51.2.6. Personal testimony thoughts around marriage sabotage

Very sadly, after I made the marriage proposal in 2022 the devil really came
at me to:

• Make me think I had to work for salvation after being born-again
• Make me think I need to "pay" to marry her - which is like a spirit of
prostitution or trafficking - the devil would happily attempt to turn
marriage into an economy - the devil is like a pimp

In my view what has happened is John 10:10:

  John 10:10 - The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came
  that they may have life and have it abundantly. (ESV)

For anyone who has some insight into my situation, another possibility is
that I was tested by God after being born of the Spirit.

I had attended a Mormon church for the first and only time on (if I recall
correctly) what I think was the second day (2 Jan) of 2022, and subsequently
born-again of the Spirit on 2 April 2022, I may have encountered some spirits
of bad doctrine.

But at the end of the day, I don't hold to their doctrine, and also I was
seeking Jesus and endeavouring to remain accountable before God and bring my
deeds into the light.

According to a Mormon, they believe in polygamy which I think is not God's
design, and from a quick internet search I can see their beliefs about
becoming gods and goddesses and eternal marriage actually have an interesting
parallel in my testing / divine court after being born-again of the spirit.

When I said on Facebook something like: "Jesus is my life my truth and my
heaven and the girl I love is like a little bit of that.", the Hindu guy who
was asking me for financial assistance (I still have the transcripts, and my
lawyer also received them) (as I was getting pagan dreams of evading
judgement through good works) immediately said on my Facebook post, "Maybe
she's god, maybe you're god", as I was staying at the house of a close
friend.

I rebuked that comment in Jesus Christ's name because my love was genuine but
was not going to allow the devil to continue trying to push me into feeling
as though I was rejecting the grace of God by denying the free gift of
justification by the blood of Jesus Christ by faith in Jesus Christ.

I asked the Hindu guy, "Did you try to put a demon in me?" Instead of saying
no, the Hindu guy then said, "But I need you to invent." - and I thought of
this verse:

  Romans 1:30 - slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful,
  inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, (ESV)

So I then rebuked him in Jesus Christ's name.

The Hindu guy then said, "I'm going back to the sea. I hope to wash up on
shore again soon.", and I felt a spirit depart from my body, and he
disappeared from Facebook. - totally demonic stuff.

I'm not going to allow the devil to try to frame it as though:

• I had to "pay" for justification
• But I was actually just obeying Jesus out of obedience - God had
simply through His grace granted me repentance to life, to be able
to love Him back as a response of Him loving me first
• I wasn't already forgiven
• But I was a born-again believer with my trust in Jesus Christ,
simply being obedient to Jesus out of love for Him, and I believed I
was totally forgiven, and without guilt
• I had to "pay" for the girl I proposed to by doing good works
• the devil is a scumbag and probably wants to institute prostitution
in the spiritual realm
• the devil wants to put a spiritual price tag on getting married
• I was trying to be my own god, which I certainly was not trying to do,
but I was interested in getting to know Jesus and "union with Christ"

The devil wanted to make me think I was not forgiven by the one True God
already after I was joyfully telling people about being born-again and
learning about Jesus, and the devil preyed on my active Fruit of the Holy
Spirit desire to marry the girl I loved with a pure heart, and make it look
like covetousness / licentiousness / lewdness when it was not - it was
basically entirely agape love. I hold to that belief / knowledge.

But the real test is that I couldn't plead not guilty because being obedient
to Jesus I have to admit in court that I am not perfect and I am guilty:

  Romans 3:23 - for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, (ESV)

It felt like the devil tried to steal my blessings and push me back into sin
and bury my testimony of Jesus and tried to push me back into bondage, and
into sin, by slamming me with lewd dreams and visions, and isolating me,
meanwhile bombarding me with accusations of my past, and I've had to fight
extremely hard to get out of the intense condemnation I've faced.

I'm not a perfect person but I've been attacked by pure evil or by what
seemed like pure evil. I realise that I'm still going through sanctification,
and I hold no grudge. I'm not pointing the blame on the people on the other
side of court. They are valued people in God's sight. I was neck-deep in
sinful behaviour before I was born-again, and I'm very thankful that Jesus
has been covering me and sanctifying me.

But as a result of what's happened in every instance of the chronic and
relentless spiritual attack I've received, whether it feels like
friendly-fire rebuking fellow Christians, the crucifixion of agape love for
someone I wanted to marry, 'feeling' like darkness is my closest friend Psalm
|  18, I have felt so subsequently harassed by demons through people, even my
own family members, I have felt defiled even from feeling as though I've been
raped by demons for well over a year, it has somewhat stripped me of joy and
the enthusiasm for Jesus which I had initially when I was born-again:

• demons trying to bury my testimony of Jesus
• demons trying to paint me as autistic
• demons trying to paint me as a threat
• demons isolating me
• demons touching me at night and putting lewd, antichrist dreams into my
head

The spiritual attack I've endured as a baby born-again Christian with barely
any Bible knowledge was so inordinate and I'm still asking God to deliver me.

This testimony of what's happened and what's happening will remain in the
light for all to see and I hope to be able to report one day that I've been
delivered from demonic harassment. I'm continue focusing on studying and
putting God's Word into practice.

I find it extremely difficult to believe (but not outside the realm of
possibility) that the relationship possibility was not grace, but whatever is
the case I am still obligated to obey Jesus, forward on to others love and
forgiveness like the love and forgiveness that Jesus has loved me with and
deny self (deny selfishness), and be faithful to Jesus:

  Luke 14:27 - Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot
  be my disciple. (ESV)

The escalating circumstances got to the point where I was asked what my plea
would be about a week before easter, and I did not want to put God to the
test by pleading not guilty because I know Jesus would be ever present with
me after I was born-again. I have a strong conviction of the sense of His
presence. And in the situations in court, I knew I should be faithful to
Jesus.

I had my own meeting with Holy Spirit on 3 May which

I found out much later that was her birthday and also the exact date of when
I pleaded guilty in court a year later.

I'm a trinitarian Christian, I confess the Nicene creed, I don't believe in
polygamy, I believe that marriage should not be idolatry, I believe in being
a servant in God's kingdom living as a sacrifice to God, and not hubris in
"becoming my own god". I want a real relationship with Jesus by being
obedient to Jesus is reality, accountable to God. Jehovah God as my witness:

  I John 2:4 - Whoever says I know him but does not keep his commandments is
  a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

I don't believe in polygamy, in fact I am resolutely against it. I much
prefer to believe that God has one person in mind for me, like Eve to Adam,
yes, but not as if "in union we would become a god", but rather that we have
our own union with Christ first and foremost.

And I don't know about the permanency of marriage either but I do believe
that God has all who are in Christ joined together by love and whatever God
has in store for us will make earthly marriage look pale by comparison.

  I Corinthians 7:29-31 - This is what I mean, brothers: the appointed time
  has grown very short. From now on, let those who have wives live as though
  they had none, and those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and
  those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing, and those who buy as
  though they had no goods, and those who deal with the world as though they
  had no dealings with it. For the present form of this world is passing
  away. (ESV)

Consider that Adam and Eve were in the paradise of God, which is our final
destination.

  Revelation of John 2:7 - He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit
  says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will grant to eat of the
  tree of life, which is in the paradise of God. (ESV)

Since what has happened has been a train-wreck - I feel like my marriage
prospects have been sabotaged - I currently am praying for God to do a
miracle to fix everything, and I know my immediate concern is ongoing
sanctification so that is my current focus.

51.2.7. The 3 that testify that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in
his Son

Commentary
Literally, by means of or through water and blood. This is the most
perplexing passage in the Epistle and one of the most perplexing in N. T. A
very great variety of interpretations have been suggested.

The testimony that God has borne concerning his Son (I John 5:10) is that God
gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son (I John 5:11), and so we
need to have the Son (I John 5:12) and if we are trusting in the name of the
Son of God (I John 5:13) then we have confidence that we have eternal life.

  I John 5:6 - This is he who came by water and blood—Jesus Christ; not by
  the water only but by the water and the blood. And the Spirit is the one
  who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth. (ESV)

Jesus came by water and blood - each of these testify, and the Spirit also
testifies.

It's God testifying:

  I John 5:9,11 - If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is
  greater, for this is the testimony of God that he has borne concerning his
  Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and this
  life is in his Son. (ESV)

I'm going to try to answer this. It's God's testimony - God testifying. Jesus
is God - Jesus' blood testifies. The Word of God in our hearts is God - God
testifies. The Spirit of God testifies.

• the Blood of Jesus
• Hebrews 12:24 - and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to
the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of
Abel. (ESV)
• the Spirit of God
• Mark 1:11 - And a voice came from heaven, You are my beloved Son;
with you I am well pleased. (ESV)
• Romans 1:4 - and was declared to be the Son of God in power
according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the
dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, (ESV)
• the Living Water - the Word of God in our hearts
• The Word of God in our hearts
• Ephesians 5:26 - that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by
the washing of water with the word, (ESV)
• John 7:38 - Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, Out
of his heart will flow rivers of living water. (ESV)
• Romans 8:15 - For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall
back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as
sons, by whom we cry, Abba! Father! (ESV)
• Galatians 4:6 - And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of
his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba! Father! (ESV)

  Mark 1:10-13 - And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the
  heavens opening and the Spirit descending on him like a dove. And a voice
  came from heaven, You are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased. The
  Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness. And he was in the
  wilderness forty days, being tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild
  animals, and the angels were ministering to him. (ESV)

In the Holy Spirit, Jesus spoke the Word of God:

  Matthew 4:1,4,7 - Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness
  to be tempted by the devil. But he answered, It is written, Man shall not
  live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.
  Jesus said to him, Again it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God
  to the test. (ESV)

  I John 5:7-11 - For there are three that testify: the Spirit and the water
  and the blood; and these three agree. If we receive the testimony of men,
  the testimony of God is greater, for this is the testimony of God that he
  has borne concerning his Son. Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is
  believing (verb)) in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever
  does not believe God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in
  the testimony that God has borne concerning his Son. And this is the
  testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
  (ESV)

Blood speaks:

  Hebrews 12:24 - and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the
  sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. (ESV)

  Genesis 4:10 - And the LORD said, What have you done? The voice of your
  brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. (ESV)

Rivers of living water - the Spirit of God, bearing witness of Jesus:

  John 4:10-14 - Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it
  is that is saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he
  would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have
  nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that
  living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well
  and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to
  her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever
  drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty forever. The
  water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up
  to eternal life. (ESV)

  John 7:38-39 - Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, Out of
  his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now this he said about the
  Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the
  Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 1:22 - and who has also put his seal on us and given us his
  Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. (ESV)

  Romans 8:16-17 - The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we
  are children of God, and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow
  heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be
  glorified with him. (ESV)

  John 15:26 - But when the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the
  Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear
  witness about me. (ESV)

51.2.8. I was learning Christ before I was born-again

We learn Christ, and are taught by Christ (becoming obedient to His teachings
and commandments) while we are in Him:

  Ephesians 4:20-21 - But that is not the way you learned Christ!— assuming
  that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in
  Jesus, (ESV)

Therefore, even before I was noticeably "born-again of the water and the
Spirit" in 2022, I had begun to try to practice Jesus' commandments in
2020/2021 in an effort to seek God, Jesus must have been already working in
me, but I say this to explain how I believe that it might be quite hard to
pinpoint the starting point, but we know that it's God's grace through faith
(believing, obedient, trusting faith) that it happens, but that doesn't mean
believing and obeying Jesus are not important to receive the Holy Spirit,
because they are.

While the Scriptures says that we are born of God when we believe (I've been
attending church my whole life, and baptised at 16 years old - 15-17), I was
born-again/regenerated of the Spirit much later (when I was 35). Does that
mean I hadn't truly believed until I was 35? Perhaps in a way. I had became
disillusioned with AI in 2021 I began seeking after God, and then I got
born-again. The Holy Spirit must have been working in my life before I was
born-again of the Spirit in this way. Holy Spirit must have been dwelling
with me even before He was in me:

  John 14:15-17 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. (ESV)

  I John 5:1 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him.

Through beginning to have patient endurance and resisting the world, and
beginning to follow Jesus, God made me born-again of the Spirit. The faith
which overcomes the world involves obedience:

  I John 5:4 - For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And
  this is the victory that has overcome the world-our faith.

Sadly, I have been attacked a lot even after being born of God. So this
confuses me. I certainly actively avoid sinning, but I have been attacked by
the enemy a lot after being regenerated.

  I John 5:18 - We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep
  on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does
  not touch him.

I affirm the way I learned Christ was through trying hard to be faithful to
Jesus in private - seeking glory from God who can see me, even when others
can't.

  Ephesians 4:18-20 - They are darkened in their understanding, alienated
  from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their
  hardness of heart. They have become callous and have given themselves up to
  sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity. But that is not the
  way you learned Christ!— (ESV)

But the yoke of the Lord Jesus has been extremely difficult.

51.2.9. Genuine belief results a dramatic decoupling with the world out of
darkness and out from under the power of Satan

Going from darkness to light and arriving at a genuine understanding in the
heart to agree with the truth coincides with a clash of beliefs between you
(who has come into the light) and the world (which is still in darkness).

Agape-love can be misplaced. We go from agape-loving (treasuring, valuing)
darkness to agape-loving (treasuring, valuing) light:

  John 3:16-20 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God
  did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that
  the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not
  condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he
  has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the
  judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved (25. agapaó)
  the darkness rather than the light (5457. phós) because their deeds were
  evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come
  to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed. (ESV)

Genuine agape loves the light. The Truth of God is light and is good and is
not wicked:

  Romans 12:9 - Let love (G26 agapé) be genuine (G505 anupokritos). Abhor
  what is evil; hold fast to what is good. (ESV)

In order to be faithful to God, you will start acting unpredictably to others
who are still in darkness. Firstly, as happened to me, you may tell someone
about Jesus for the first time. Also, you will be led amongst people in
darkness and make confessions of the truth to combat lies in remaining
faithful to God, and obey Jesus' commandments in situations where others in
darkness or under the power of Satan may pressure you to not. And people may
react in hostile ways. I just think that turning from darkness to light and
the power of Satan to God naturally results in decoupling from the world:

  John 10:18-21 - No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own
  accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up
  again. This charge I have received from my Father. There was again a
  division among the Jews because of these words. Many of them said, He has a
  demon, and is insane; why listen to him? Others said, These are not the
  words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the
  blind? (ESV)

  Acts 26:24-25 - And as he was saying these things in his defense, Festus
  said with a loud voice, Paul, you are out of your mind; your great learning
  is driving you out of your mind. But Paul said, I am not out of my mind,
  most excellent Festus, but I am speaking true and rational words. (ESV)

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness
  of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. (ESV)

51.2.10. Holiness - J.C. Ryle

  Holiness:

    • The habit of being of one mind with God, according as we find His mind
      described in Scripture:
         • It is the habit of agreeing in God's judgment, hating what He
           hates, loving what He loves, and measuring everything in this
           world by the standard of His Word. He who most entirely agrees
           with God, he is the most holy man.
    • endeavor to shun every known sin and to keep every known commandment.
    • strive to be like our Lord Jesus Christ
    • follow after meekness, patience, gentleness, patience, kind tempers,
      government of his tongue. He will bear much, forbear much, overlook
      much and be slow to talk of standing on his rights
    • follow after temperance and self–denial. He will labor to mortify the
      desires of his body, to crucify his flesh with his affections and
      lusts, to curb his passions, to restrain his carnal inclinations
    • follow after charity and brotherly kindness
    • follow after a spirit of mercy and benevolence towards others
    • follow after purity of heart. He will dread all filthiness and
      uncleanness of spirit, and seek to avoid all things that might draw him
      into it
    • follow after the fear of God. I do not mean the fear of a slave, who
      only works because he is afraid of punishment and would be idle if he
      did not dread discovery
    • follow after humility. He will desire, in lowliness of mind, to esteem
      all others better than himself
    • follow after faithfulness in all the duties and relations in life. He
      will try, not merely to fill his place as well as others who take no
      thought for their souls, but even better, because he has higher motives
      and more help than they
    • follow after spiritual–mindedness. He will endeavor to set his
      affections entirely on things above and to hold things on earth with a
      very loose hand.

51.2.11. Gay 'marriage' should not be held in equal standing to God's design

  Isaiah 6:20 - Woe to those who call evil good, and good evil; Who
  substitute darkness for light and light for darkness; Who substitute bitter
  for sweet and sweet for bitter!

51.3. Workers of the kingdom may take a believing wife

  I Corinthians 9:5-9 - Do we not have the right to take along a believing
  wife, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas? Or
  is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working for a
  living? Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard
  without eating any of its fruit? Or who tends a flock without getting some
  of the milk? Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the Law say
  the same? For it is written in the Law of Moses, You shall not muzzle an ox
  when it treads out the grain. Is it for oxen that God is concerned?

51.3.1. But for the sake of the Kingdom, they may choose to be single

  Matthew 19:12 - For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and
  there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs
  who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let
  the one who is able to receive this receive it.

  I Corinthians 7:8-9 - To the unmarried and the widows I say that it is good
  for them to remain single as I am. But if they cannot exercise
  self-control, they should marry. For it is better to marry than to be
  aflame with passion.

  Revelation of John 14:4 - It is these who have not defiled themselves with
  women, for they are virgins. It is these who follow the Lamb wherever he
  goes. These have been redeemed from mankind as firstfruits for God and the
  Lamb,

51.3.2. Being ready for Jesus comes first

  Luke 14:20-24 - And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I
  cannot come. So the servant came and reported these things to his master.
  Then the master of the house became angry and said to his servant, Go out
  quickly to the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor and
  crippled and blind and lame. And the servant said, Sir, what you commanded
  has been done, and still there is room. And the master said to the servant,
  Go out to the highways and hedges and compel people to come in, that my
  house may be filled. For I tell you, none of those men who were invited
  shall taste my banquet.

  Matthew 25:1-13 - Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who
  took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were
  foolish, and five were wise. For when the foolish took their lamps, they
  took no oil with them, but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. As
  the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. But at
  midnight there was a cry, Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him.
  Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said
  to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the
  wise answered, saying, Since there will not be enough for us and for you,
  go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves. And while they were going
  to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to
  the marriage feast, and the door was shut. Afterward the other virgins came
  also, saying, Lord, lord, open to us. But he answered, Truly, I say to you,
  I do not know you. Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the
  hour.

51.4. Marriage should be holy for future sake

God's covenant was given to Noah and his wife and Noah's sons and their
wives.

  Genesis 6:18 - But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall
  come into the ark, you, your sons, your wife, and your sons' wives with
  you.

  Genesis 7:7 - And Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with
  him went into the ark to escape the waters of the flood.

Even the animals went into the ark two by two, male with their female:

  Genesis 6:19 - And of every living thing of all flesh, you shall bring two
  of every sort into the ark to keep them alive with you. They shall be male
  and female.

Noah still had a wife, a believing wife, I assume.

  Matthew 24:38 - For as in those days before the flood they were eating and
  drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered
  the ark,

God has to be the lover of our soul.

Quote by Tim Keller
If it's not God who's meaning is the source of your meaning, who's
affirmation is the source of your self-worth, and who's power is the source
of security, you're in bed with something spiritually, something you've given
yourself to in realms so deep and so profound that God here is saying, "you
are every bit spiritually beholden to it as you are physically beholden. You
are every bit spiritually laid out as spread out as vulnerable to it
spiritually as you are physically when you're having sex with someone. You're
doing the very same thing spiritually that you do in bed with someone
physically.

51.4.1. The spiritual marriage belongs to Christ

  II Corinthians 11:2-4 - I feel a divine jealousy for you, for I betrothed
  you to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. But I am
  afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts will
  be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ. For if someone
  comes and proclaims another Jesus than the one we proclaimed, or if you
  receive a different spirit from the one you received, or if you accept a
  different gospel from the one you accepted, you put up with it readily
  enough. (ESV)

I had considered that marriage should be laser precision close so that
nothing is able to cause disunity, but that's actually what God wants us to
be like with Him first and foremost.

Marriage should be holy, it should be in the Lord and we are espoused to
Christ. And this says that remarriage must be in the Lord:

  I Corinthians 7:39 - A wife is bound to her husband as long as he lives.
  But if her husband dies, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only
  in the Lord. (ESV)

This was a good sermon on the topic I watched today:

Sermon
youtube.com: How Sin Makes Us Addicts - Timothy Keller

  Joshua 22:5 - Only be very careful to observe the commandment and the law
  that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded you, to love the LORD your
  God, and to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments and to cling
  to him and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. (ESV)

In all honesty, I think it's valuable that a Christian marriage couple should
still seek to cling to each other. It should be very, very close, so that no
lawless spirits try to break the unity. Only God can lawfully separate a
marriage partner:

  Matthew 19:5-6 - and said, Therefore a man shall leave his father and his
  mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh? So they
  are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together,
  let not man separate. (ESV)

Concerning existing marriages, where one person becomes a believer, the
unbelieving spouse is sanctified because of the believing spouse. So it's not
the end of the world having an unbelieving spouse, but what this says is that
the unbeliever is made holy - they will come to believe:

  I Corinthians 7:14 - For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of
  his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband.
  Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy.
  (ESV)

51.5. Marriage is still good but so is singleness

  I Corinthians 7:37-40 - But whoever is firmly established in his heart,
  being under no necessity but having his desire under control, and has
  determined this in his heart, to keep her as his betrothed, he will do
  well. So then he who marries his betrothed does well, and he who refrains
  from marriage will do even better. A wife is bound to her husband as long
  as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to be married to whom she
  wishes, only in the Lord. Yet in my judgment she is happier if she remains
  as she is. And I think that I too have the Spirit of God. (ESV)

51.6. Spiritual attraction: God must be our spiritual spouse and if it's not God,
then it's something else

Sermon
youtube.com: How Sin Makes Us Addicts - Timothy Keller

  Jeremiah 2:1-8 - The word of the LORD came to me, saying, Go and proclaim
  in the hearing of Jerusalem, Thus says the LORD, I remember the devotion of
  your youth, your love as a bride, how you followed me in the wilderness, in
  a land not sown. Israel was holy to the LORD, the firstfruits of his
  harvest. All who ate of it incurred guilt; disaster came upon them,
  declares the LORD. Hear the word of the LORD, O house of Jacob, and all the
  clans of the house of Israel. Thus says the LORD: What wrong did your
  fathers find in me that they went far from me, and went after
  worthlessness, and became worthless? They did not say, Where is the LORD
  who brought us up from the land of Egypt, who led us in the wilderness, in
  a land of deserts and pits, in a land of drought and deep darkness, in a
  land that none passes through, where no man dwells? And I brought you into
  a plentiful land to enjoy its fruits and its good things. But when you came
  in, you defiled my land and made my heritage an abomination. The priests
  did not say, Where is the LORD? Those who handle the law did not know me;
  the shepherds transgressed against me; the prophets prophesied by Baal and
  went after things that do not profit. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 2:23-32 - How can you say, I am not unclean, I have not gone after
  the Baals? Look at your way in the valley; know what you have done— a
  restless young camel running here and there, a wild donkey used to the
  wilderness, in her heat sniffing the wind! Who can restrain her lust? None
  who seek her need weary themselves; in her month they will find her. Keep
  your feet from going unshod and your throat from thirst. But you said, It
  is hopeless, for I have loved foreigners, and after them I will go. As a
  thief is shamed when caught, so the house of Israel shall be shamed: they,
  their kings, their officials, their priests, and their prophets, who say to
  a tree, You are my father, and to a stone, You gave me birth. For they have
  turned their back to me, and not their face. But in the time of their
  trouble they say, Arise and save us! But where are your gods that you made
  for yourself? Let them arise, if they can save you, in your time of
  trouble; for as many as your cities are your gods, O Judah. Why do you
  contend with me? You have all transgressed against me, declares the LORD.
  In vain have I struck your children; they took no correction; your own
  sword devoured your prophets like a ravening lion. And you, O generation,
  behold the word of the LORD. Have I been a wilderness to Israel, or a land
  of thick darkness? Why then do my people say, We are free, we will come no
  more to you? Can a virgin forget her ornaments, or a bride her attire? Yet
  my people have forgotten me days without number. (ESV)

51.7. Covenant marriage is great, but for the Gentiles who turn to God, it's not
essentially required to burden them beyond abstaining from sexual immorality

  Malachi 2:14 - But you say, Why does he not? Because the LORD was witness
  between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been faithless,
  though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. (ESV)

  Acts 15:19-20 - Therefore my judgment is that we should not trouble those
  of the Gentiles who turn to God, but should write to them to abstain from
  the things polluted by idols, and from sexual immorality, and from what has
  been strangled, and from blood.

51.8. Marriage in the next age

51.8.1. Incorruptible love to make it into heaven, but not lust

  Ephesians 6:24 - Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ
  with incorruptible love.

  I Corinthians 13:8 - Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass
  away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away.

 1. There is no lust in heaven

  II Peter 1:3-4 - seeing that His divine power has granted to us
  everything pertaining to life and godliness, through the true knowledge
  of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence. For by these He
  has granted to us His precious and magnificent promises, so that by
  them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the
  corruption that is in the world by lust. (NASB)

51.8.2. No-one marrys (verb) or is given in marriage (verb)

  Luke 20:33-36 - In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will the woman
  be? For the seven had her as wife. And Jesus said to them, The sons of this
  age (G165 aion) marry (G1060 gameo) and are given in marriage (G1061
  gamisko), but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age (G165
  aion) and to the resurrection (G386 anastasis) from the dead neither marry
  nor are given in marriage, for they cannot die anymore, because they are
  equal to angels and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.

This is the best explanation I have found for this:

youtube.com: Strive to let everything bodily die within you, and you will
rise before the general resurrection

51.8.3. In heaven, people are like angels - imperishable

  Mark 12:25 - For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are
  given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 21:4 - He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and
  death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain
  anymore, for the former things have passed away. (ESV)

We receive an imperishable reward:

  I Corinthians 9:25 - Everyone who competes in the games exercises
  self-control in all things. They then do it to receive a perishable wreath,
  but we an imperishable. (ESV)

  I Peter 1:4 - to obtain an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled
  and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you, (ESV)

Even our bodies will be imperishable:

  1 Corinthians 15:4 - So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is
  sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 15:52 - in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last
  trumpet; for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised
  imperishable, and we will be changed. (ESV)

51.8.4. Jesus is incorruptible

  Hebrews 1:3 - And He is the radiance of His glory and the exact
  representation of His nature (G5287 hupostasis), and upholds all things by
  the word of His power. When He had made purification of sins, He sat down
  at the right hand of the Majesty on high,

  Matthew 24:35 - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass
  away.

  Luke 16:17 - But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for
  one dot of the Law to become void.

|  :  5287  hupostasis  hoop-os'-tas-is
| 
|   from a compound of 5259 and 2476; a setting under (support), i.e.
|   (figuratively) concretely, essence, or abstractly, assurance
|   (objectively or subjectively):--confidence, confident, person,
|   substance.
|   see GREEK for 5259
|   see GREEK for 2476

51.8.5. We are married to Christ

  Revelation of John 21:9 - Then came one of the seven angels who had the
  seven bowls full of the seven last plagues and spoke to me, saying, Come, I
  will show you the Bride, the wife of the Lamb.

  Ephesians 5:23-33 - For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ
  is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now as the
  church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to
  their husbands. Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and
  gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by
  the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to
  himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she
  might be holy and without blemish. In the same way husbands should love
  their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For
  no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as
  Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore a man
  shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two
  shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it
  refers to Christ and the church. However, let each one of you love his wife
  as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband.

  1 Corinthians 15:42 - So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is
  sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:26 - for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through
  faith.

  Revelation 20:6 - Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first
  resurrection! Over such the second death has no power, but they will be
  priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand
  years. (ESV)

51.8.6. We must present ourselves as virgins to Christ. We must be being
sanctified

  Matthew 25:1-13 - Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who
  took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were
  foolish, and five were wise. For when the foolish took their lamps, they
  took no oil with them, but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. As
  the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. But at
  midnight there was a cry, Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him.
  Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said
  to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the
  wise answered, saying, Since there will not be enough for us and for you,
  go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves. And while they were going
  to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to
  the marriage feast, and the door was shut. Afterward the other virgins came
  also, saying, Lord, lord, open to us. But he answered, Truly, I say to you,
  I do not know you. Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the
  hour.

51.9. Bride of Christ

  Revelation of John 21:9 - Then came one of the seven angels who had the
  seven bowls full of the seven last plagues and spoke to me, saying, Come, I
  will show you the Bride, the wife of the Lamb.

  Revelation of John 19:7-9 - Let us rejoice and exult and give him the
  glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his Bride has made
  herself ready; it was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright
  and pure— for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. And the
  angel said to me, Write this: Blessed are those who are invited to the
  marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true words of
  God. (ESV)

We must espouse ourselves to Christ:

  II Corinthians 11:2 - I feel a divine jealousy for you, for I betrothed you
  to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. (ESV)

The new Jerusalem is the Bride of Christ:

  Revelation of John 21:2 - And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming
  down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
  (ESV)

  John 3:29 - The one who has the bride is the bridegroom. The friend of the
  bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's
  voice. Therefore this joy of mine is now complete. (ESV)

John the Baptist says that the Christ is the bridegroom:

  John 3:28-31 - You yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the
  Christ, but I have been sent before him. The one who has the bride is the
  bridegroom. The friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him,
  rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore this joy of mine is
  now complete. He must increase, but I must decrease. He who comes from
  above is above all. He who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks
  in an earthly way. He who comes from heaven is above all.

Jesus reinforces that idea:

  Mark 2:18-20 - Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. And
  people came and said to him, Why do John's disciples and the disciples of
  the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them,
  Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as
  they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. The days will come
  when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in
  that day. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 21:9 - Then came one of the seven angels who had the
  seven bowls full of the seven last plagues and spoke to me, saying, Come, I
  will show you the Bride, the wife of the Lamb. (ESV)

  Isaiah 54:5 - For your Maker is your husband, the LORD of hosts is his
  name; and the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer, the God of the whole
  earth he is called. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 21:9-11 - Then came one of the seven angels who had the
  seven bowls full of the seven last plagues and spoke to me, saying, Come, I
  will show you the Bride, the wife of the Lamb. And he carried me away in
  the Spirit to a great, high mountain, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem
  coming down out of heaven from God, having the glory of God, its radiance
  like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal. (ESV)

  Isaiah 62:3-5 - You shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the Lord, and
  a royal diadem in the hand of your God. You shall no more be termed
  Forsaken, and your land shall no more be termed Desolate, but you shall be
  called My Delight Is in Her, and your land Married; for the Lord delights
  in you, and your land shall be married. For as a young man marries a young
  woman, so shall your sons marry you, and as the bridegroom rejoices over
  the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you.

  Revelation of John 22:17 - The Spirit and the Bride say, Come. And let the
  one who hears say, Come. And let the one who is thirsty come; let the one
  who desires take the water of life without price. (ESV)

51.10. I do not endorse gay marriage - I consider it to be sin - grave sin,
actually

I personally do not endorse gay marriage. When I have in the past, I repent
of that.

That is not to say it is not possible to endorse it yourself (and take the
consequences of that) but a person is accountable to God for that act of
annulling one of His commandments.

  Matthew 5:19 - Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these
  commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the
  kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called
  great in the kingdom of heaven.

We are also supposed to speak up for the God's Truth. We should affirm sound
Christian teaching when it comes to what is sinful. Just because we may not
judge others when it comes to something sinful, that doesn't mean that God
wont judge us for practicing and affirming something sinful.

Quote from Mari Mari Emmanuel
So fear nothing, love everyone, but be firm when it comes to speaking the
truth. Truth cannot be compromised. … The one who is all love, He was sharper
than a sword; When it came to holding the Truth, fighting for the Truth, He
stood firm, never gave way, never compromised. Now that is love. If you truly
love someone, wouldn't you want them to be living in the Truth? If you truly
love the person, you will tell them, "This is right… This is wrong…"

In the manner in which I judge, I know I will be judged.

  Matthew 7:1-2 - “Do not judge so that you will not be judged. For in the
  way you judge, you will be judged; and by your standard of measure, it will
  be measured to you.

So I believe that because I do not / no longer endorse gay marriage for
others, I do not endorse it for myself, and I'll be held to that standard.

  Leviticus 18:22 - You shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is an
  abomination. (ESV)

However, endorsing gay marriage is not merely breaking commandment, but also
it is contrary to the spiritual reality:

  Genesis 2:22-24 - And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he
  made into a woman and brought her to the man. Then the man said, This at
  last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman,
  because she was taken out of Man. Therefore a man shall leave his father
  and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh.
  (ESV)

51.11. God's law is still used. It's part of the gospel, and can certainly be
used to judge the sinners, including those who are unrepentant from sexual
immorality

  1 Timothy 1:8-11 - Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it
  lawfully, understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just
  but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the
  unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for
  murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers,
  liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine, in
  accordance with the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have
  been entrusted. (ESV)

51.12. God's law is good. His precepts are good. I don't identify with any of
this LGBT stuff, and I am against licentiousness

I'm trying to side with Jesus over issues regarding the evil which is still
present in the world and "hate the sin, not the sinner", and starting by
first taking a look at my own problems but by no means endorsing sinful
things even things I consider I do which are sinful, I don't endorse them for
myself either:

  John 7:6-8 - Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is
  always here. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify
  about it that its works are evil. You go up to the feast. I am not going up
  to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come. (ESV)

  Hebrews 13:4 - Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the
  marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and
  adulterous. (ESV)

But God is love, not a graceless machine:

  I John 3:21 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence
  before God; (ESV)

Confessing Jesus and actually following Christ's law (bearing one another's
burdens in the understanding that we've been loved first) is what matters at
the day of judgement:

  I John 4:15-17 - Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides
  in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to believe the love that
  God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and
  God abides in him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

But yeah, I still think that actually following God's precepts out of love
for God is certainly a good idea:

  Psalms 119:49-94 - Remember your word to your servant, in which you have
  made me hope. Zayin This is my comfort in my affliction, that your promise
  gives me life. The insolent utterly deride me, but I do not turn away from
  your law. When I think of your rules from of old, I take comfort, O LORD.
  Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked, who forsake your law. Your
  statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourning. I remember your
  name in the night, O LORD, and keep your law. This blessing has fallen to
  me, that I have kept your precepts. The LORD is my portion; I promise to
  keep your words. Heth I entreat your favor with all my heart; be gracious
  to me according to your promise. When I think on my ways, I turn my feet to
  your testimonies; I hasten and do not delay to keep your commandments.
  Though the cords of the wicked ensnare me, I do not forget your law. At
  midnight I rise to praise you, because of your righteous rules. I am a
  companion of all who fear you, of those who keep your precepts. The earth,
  O LORD, is full of your steadfast love; teach me your statutes! You have
  dealt well with your servant, O LORD, according to your word. Teth Teach me
  good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments. Before I
  was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep your word. You are good and do
  good; teach me your statutes. The insolent smear me with lies, but with my
  whole heart I keep your precepts; their heart is unfeeling like fat, but I
  delight in your law. It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might
  learn your statutes. The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands
  of gold and silver pieces. Your hands have made and fashioned me; give me
  understanding that I may learn your commandments. Yodh Those who fear you
  shall see me and rejoice, because I have hoped in your word. I know, O
  LORD, that your rules are righteous, and that in faithfulness you have
  afflicted me. Let your steadfast love comfort me according to your promise
  to your servant. Let your mercy come to me, that I may live; for your law
  is my delight. Let the insolent be put to shame, because they have wronged
  me with falsehood; as for me, I will meditate on your precepts. Let those
  who fear you turn to me, that they may know your testimonies. May my heart
  be blameless in your statutes, that I may not be put to shame! My soul
  longs for your salvation; I hope in your word. Kaph My eyes long for your
  promise; I ask, When will you comfort me? For I have become like a wineskin
  in the smoke, yet I have not forgotten your statutes. How long must your
  servant endure? When will you judge those who persecute me? The insolent
  have dug pitfalls for me; they do not live according to your law. All your
  commandments are sure; they persecute me with falsehood; help me! They have
  almost made an end of me on earth, but I have not forsaken your precepts.
  In your steadfast love give me life, that I may keep the testimonies of
  your mouth. Forever, O LORD, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens.
  Lamedh Your faithfulness endures to all generations; you have established
  the earth, and it stands fast. By your appointment they stand this day, for
  all things are your servants. If your law had not been my delight, I would
  have perished in my affliction. I will never forget your precepts, for by
  them you have given me life. I am yours; save me, for I have sought your
  precepts. (ESV)

I have not forsaken your precepts - AMEN!!

51.13. Can gay 'marriage' exist anywhere in the Kingdom of God? It's certainly
not generally endorsed, nor should it be normalised or made equal with marriage

I don't know if gay marriage can exist anywhere in the Kingdom of God.

I don't think it should be generally endorsed, especially by Christians.

51.13.1. God still does not endorse practicing homosexuality, nor lust

  1 Timothy 1:8-11 - Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it
  lawfully, understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just
  but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the
  unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for
  murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers,
  liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine, in
  accordance with the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have
  been entrusted. (ESV)

51.13.2. The most weighty matters of the law are justice, mercy, faithfulness,
and service

Justice, mercy and faithfulness are essential for entering the Kingdom of
God. Repentance and holiness are very important for entering the Kingdom of
God too. Greed and self-indulgence will stop a person from entering the
Kingdom of God:

  Matthew 23:23-25 - Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of
  the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done,
  without neglecting the others. You blind guides, straining out a gnat and
  swallowing a camel! Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of
  greed and self-indulgence.

When applying the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness are the weightier
matters of the law. However, the remainder of the law is not supposed to be
neglected either.

51.13.3. Even though the law came later, practicing homosexuality has always
been sinful

  Genesis 13:13 - Now the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the
  Lord.

  Genesis 18:20 - Then the Lord said, Because the outcry against Sodom and
  Gomorrah is great and their sin is very grave,

51.13.4. Sexual immorality, sensuality, etc. will really stop people from
inheriting the kingdom of God

This is not an exhaustive list:

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

But only the ones who are truly remorseful:

  I Corinthians 6:9-10 - Do you not know that the unrighteous will not
  inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually
  immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
  nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers
  will inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

Flock = Jesus' followers. God wants to give Jesus' followers the kingdom, but
we have to stop serving sin and repent to serve God through Jesus:

  Luke 12:30-32 - For all the nations of the world seek after these things,
  and your Father knows that you need them. Instead, seek his kingdom, and
  these things will be added to you. Fear not, little flock, for it is your
  Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. (ESV)

51.13.5. Faith in Jesus is required - Him paying the price for our sin

I think endorsing LGBT, etc. leads the world progressively closer to the
abyss.

Sin made against our own body is really bad for us. This is a warning:

  I Corinthians 6:16-20 - Or do you not know that he who is joined to a
  prostitute becomes one body with her? For, as it is written, The two will
  become one flesh. But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with
  him. Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is
  outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own
  body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit
  within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were
  bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. (ESV)

I personally wouldn't endorse any kind of sexual immorality for eternal
safety sake, and also because adultery and sexual immorality is sin and very
damaging to oneself:

  Leviticus 18:22 - You shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is an
  abomination. (ESV)

Yes, it is an issue in the law and in God's design, and gay marriage is not
endorsed or blessed by God:

  Jude 1:7 - just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which
  likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire, serve
  as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire. (ESV)

I believe there is something to [the amount of] law compliance which alludes
to God's common grace, but I think we have to really get our mind away from
the flesh and onto the Spirit for multiple reasons:

  Matthew 5:14-20 - You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill
  cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but
  on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let
  your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and
  give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Do not think that I have come
  to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to
  fulfill them. For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away,
  not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
  Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and
  teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of
  heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the
  kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that
  of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
  (ESV)

  Romans 13:14 - But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for
  the flesh, to gratify its desires. (ESV)

  Romans 8:6-7 - To set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind
  on the Spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is
  hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law; indeed, it cannot.
  (ESV)

I guess where a person is positioned may have a lot to do also with what laws
person disagrees with and teaches others to disagree with, or conversely
practices and teaches others to comply with, and noone who practices sexual
immorality, etc. will inherit the kingdom:

  Matthew 7:2 - For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and
  with the measure you use it will be measured to you. (ESV)

I currently believe this means that the grace that exists for people who are
practicing and teaching pro-LGBT who have faith in Jesus are accountable to
God for whatever they disagree with God about, and I think that's really
unwise, and I believe they wont inherit the kingdom of God and His saints,
and I'm not the judge, and I just want to state my position on the issue, and
I'm trying to understand what the Bible is saying accurately, and say I don't
myself approve of any sexual immorality, and I'm trying myself to put all
sexual immorality to death in my body and my thoughts.

youtube.com: Paul Washer - Ongoing Sin @time: 9 min 23 sec

To enter the kingdom of God a person's righteousness needs to exceed that of
the Pharisees and Scribes in order to enter the Kingdom of God and the
weightier matters of the law are justice, mercy and faithfulness.

The person's righteousness, I believe Jesus is talking about in Matthew 5:20
is in a real way talking about personal holiness. I feel like both the
imputed righteousness of Christ and personal holiness are important here.
Neither of those are 'good works'. Personal holiness is a lot to do with the
result of repentance from sin:

  Matthew 5:20 - For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of
  the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
  (ESV)

  I Corinthians 6:9-10 - Do you not know that the unrighteous will not
  inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually
  immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
  nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers
  will inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

Of course as we abide in Jesus, serving Jesus, we have His imputed
righteousness, but there is also the concept of 'personal righteousness' and
I think that has a lot to do with what a person approves of or doesn't
approve of, what they practice and what they teach others to practice.

I don't want to judge other people but I want to try to understand these
Scriptures accurately and heed the warnings against committing sin. God's
grace is meant to lead us to repentance and to love:

  Romans 2:2-4 - We know that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who
  do such things. Do you suppose, O man—you who judge those who do such
  things and yet do them yourself—that you will escape the judgment of God?
  Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and
  patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to
  repentance? (ESV)

"Straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel" means focusing too much on
really small matters of the law while neglecting (or being blind to) the
weightier matters:

  Matthew 23:23-24 - Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of
  the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done,
  without neglecting the others. You blind guides, straining out a gnat and
  swallowing a camel! (ESV)

Also, I think eternal life is for those who:

• a) receive forgiveness from Jesus,
• b) obey Jesus and become a bondservant of God.

51.13.6. Sanctification (turning from sin, etc.) is essential for inheriting
the kingdom and eternal life

  Romans 6:22 - But now that you have been set free from sin and have become
  slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end,
  eternal life.

This is my current understanding. So most likely it is not tolerated in the
kingdom of God.

I 100% believe that anyone who has faith in Jesus Christ can be saved /
spared from being condemned to hell, and receive eternal life, but I think
repentance from sin and sanctification are quite important for inheriting the
Kingdom and indeed from being spared from being given over to our own lusts
and from being spared from the wrath of God that comes with that. We trust
Jesus and He leads us out of darkness.

  I Corinthians 6:9-10 - Do you not know that the unrighteous will not
  inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually
  immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
  nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers
  will inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

  I John 2:19 - They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they
  had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out, that
  it might become plain that they all are not of us. (ESV)

Believers (trusters) of Jesus Christ have eternal life and are not condemned:

  Romans 10:11 - For the Scripture says, Everyone who believes in him will
  not be put to shame. (ESV)

Trusting Jesus' words we do not come into judgement, but change direction,
and instead our destiny is life eternal. We do not come into judgement. Jesus
is the judge of that:

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word (191.
  akouó) and believes (4100. pisteuó) him who sent me has eternal life. He
  does not come (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed (3327.
  metabain) from death to life. (ESV)

I think John 5:24 reads that the one who is trusting the words spoken through
Jesus, trusting God, trusting Jesus is holds/posesses eternal life and has
passed from death into life.

2064. erchomai
to come, go

3327. metabain
to pass over, withdraw, depart

All who have believed will marvel:

  II Thessalonians 1:9-12 - They will suffer the punishment of eternal
  destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his
  might, when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints, and to be
  marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was
  believed. To this end we always pray for you, that our God may make you
  worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work
  of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified
  in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord
  Jesus Christ. (ESV)

But faith requires obedience, and salvation requires turning from sin.

And it doesn't excuse them from repentance from sin. But they're accountable
for God to it.

I like this guy's explanation
youtube.com: How to Repent, explained as a video game

Repentance is essential for eternal life.

  John 8:34-35 - Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone
  who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house
  forever; the son remains forever.

Sermon
youtube.com: Preparing to Meet God

51.13.7. Practicing homosexuality is very sinful and so locking it in with a
covenant is very self-destructive

But justice, mercy and faithfulness are the weightier matters of the law.
What I mean to say is that without the sinners themselves showing justice,
mercy and faithfulness, gay 'marriage' would be totally unjustifiable.

Judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over
judgment:

  James 2:13 - For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy.
  Mercy triumphs over judgment. (ESV)

  James 3:1 - Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you
  know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. (ESV)

God, please have mercy. I repent from all sexual immorality, and from
endorsing it.

  John 8:7-11 - And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to
  them, Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at
  her. And once more he bent down and wrote on the ground. But when they
  heard it, they went away one by one, beginning with the older ones, and
  Jesus was left alone with the woman standing before him. Jesus stood up and
  said to her, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you? She said, No
  one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn you; go, and from now on
  sin no more.]] (ESV)

51.13.8. Without following Jesus Christ's commandments, gay 'marriage' would
never be justifiable

  Galatians 5:18 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  law.

But we have to speak and act as those who are to be judged under the law of
liberty:

  James 2:10-13 - For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has
  become accountable for all of it. For he who said, Do not commit adultery,
  also said, Do not murder. If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you
  have become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as those who are
  to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to one
  who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.

Without acknowledging the truth, and without acknowledging that God's law and
design is good, gay 'marriage' would be totally unjustifiable.

51.13.9. The slave to sin doesn't remain in God's house forever

  John 8:34-35 - Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone
  who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house
  forever; the son remains forever.

Also, the Kingdom stretches from heaven to earth, so gay 'marriage' may
happen on earth but such a thing could never exist in heaven.

But neither does marriage between man and woman even exist in heaven.

But those who practice sexual impurity which includes homosexuality probably
wont inherit the kingdom, nor enter into the New Jerusalem in Heaven - those
are for the saints (those who keep God's commandments AND have faith in
Jesus).

  Galatians 5:18-21 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  law. Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity,
  sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger,
  rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things
  like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such
  things will not inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 11:2 - I feel a divine jealousy for you, for I betrothed you
  to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. (ESV)

The new Jerusalem is the Bride of Christ:

  Revelation of John 21:2 - And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming
  down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
  (ESV)

But can they enter the kingdom on earth? I'm not sure.

God is the justifier.

So long as they continue in practicing homosexuality, they wouldn't stay.

They have to be practicing righteousness, through following Jesus Christ -
and obeying Jesus' commandments:

  I John 3:7 - Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous.

  Matthew 6:10 - Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven.

I don't think God ever endorses people to sin, but has grace for sinners.

  John 1:17 - For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came
  through Jesus Christ.

I don't think it's possible to receive the grace without receiving the truth,
because Jesus Christ is the grace and the truth.

  Luke 18:13 - But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift
  up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me,
  a sinner! (ESV)

Prideful sin definitely doesn't make the cut.

  Proverbs 16:18 - Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before
  a fall. (ESV)

  Proverbs 16:5 - Everyone who is arrogant in heart is an abomination to the
  LORD; be assured, he will not go unpunished. (ESV)

  Proverbs 16:49 - Why should a fool have money in his hand to buy wisdom
  when he has no sense? (ESV)

  Isaiah 2:17 - And the haughtiness of man shall be humbled, and the lofty
  pride of men shall be brought low, and the LORD alone will be exalted in
  that day. (ESV)

51.13.10. The everlasting covenant if one is in the everlasting covenant,
should incite a person's shame for their past sin - not their pride

  Ezekiel 16:58-63 - You bear the penalty of your lewdness and your
  abominations, declares the Lord. For thus says the Lord God: I will deal
  with you as you have done, you who have despised the oath in breaking the
  covenant, yet I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your
  youth, and I will establish for you an everlasting covenant. Then you will
  remember your ways and be ashamed when you take your sisters, both your
  elder and your younger, and I give them to you as daughters, but not on
  account of the covenant with you. I will establish my covenant with you,
  and you shall know that I am the Lord, that you may remember and be
  confounded, and never open your mouth again because of your shame, when I
  atone for you for all that you have done, declares the Lord God.

51.13.11. The abyss is a thing. And our security is faith in Christ

  Romans 10:6-13 - But the righteousness based on faith says, Do not say in
  your heart, Who will ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down) or
  Who will descend into the abyss? (that is, to bring Christ up from the
  dead). But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth and in
  your heart (that is, the word of faith that we proclaim); because, if you
  confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that
  God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one
  believes (G4100 pisteuo) and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses
  and is saved. For the Scripture says, Everyone who believes in him will not
  be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; the
  same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For
  everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.

But just because Jesus can save us when we have the righteousness based on
faith, that doesn't mean we should purposefully sin and go towards the abyss.

We want God's will to be done on earth, as it is done in heaven. We also want
to do God's will.

  Matthew 6:10 - Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven.

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. (ESV)

51.13.12. Grace even for the evildoer

The Revelation of John is for Jesus' servants. I'm going to claim this.

  Revelation of John 1:1 - The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him
  to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it
  known by sending his angel to his servant John,

  Matthew 5:7 - Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.

The merciful shall receive mercy.

  Revelation of John 22:14-15 - Blessed are those who wash their robes, so
  that they may have the right to the tree of life and that they may enter
  the city by the gates. Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and the sexually
  immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices
  falsehood. (ESV)

  Proverbs 26:11 - Like a dog that returns to his vomit is a fool who repeats
  his folly.

  II Peter 2:21-22 - For it would have been better for them never to have
  known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the
  holy commandment delivered to them. What the true proverb says has happened
  to them: The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing
  herself, returns to wallow in the mire.

Here's the grace. I choose to interpret this in this way, and I claim it
because I claim to be a servant of Jesus:

  Mark 7:27-29 - And he said to her, Let the children be fed first, for it is
  not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. But she
  answered him, Yes, Lord; yet even the dogs under the table eat the
  children's crumbs. And he said to her, For this statement you may go your
  way; the demon has left your daughter.

  Isaiah 56:11 - The dogs have a mighty appetite; they never have enough. But
  they are shepherds who have no understanding; they have all turned to their
  own way, each to his own gain, one and all.

  Philippians 3:2-3 - Look out for the dogs, look out for the evildoers, look
  out for those who mutilate the flesh. For we are the real circumcision, who
  worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no
  confidence in the flesh—

It's not of my own interpretation though:

  II Peter 1:20-21 - knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture
  comes from someone's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever produced
  by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by
  the Holy Spirit. (ESV)

 1. God's original design is male and female union and also the law reflects
the spiritual reality

  I do not actually know what 'astral projection is'. I just googled for
  whatever I could find to describe it.

  This was something for sure, it was a conversation in my sleep,
  accompanied by dreams.

  The first incident was a blue 'light body' which I have felt up until
  this day, and after that, I have felt like the 'veil' has been very
  thin and I have had spiritual experiences, and noticing things
  spiritually.

  This was not brought on by meditation or anything, but it happened 'to'
  me.

  I prayed to God consecrating this part of my life to Jesus and the Holy
  Spirit.

  And I also prayed that I would not have any out of body experiences
  like this.

I saw a dark spot around my rib when I was born-again. What I experienced
I believe was the regeneration of my spirit-man:

https://web.archive.org/web/20220402091720/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/astral-projection/

I believe that God has been raising me up as a son:

  Hebrews 2:10 - For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all
  things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder
  of their salvation perfect through suffering. (ESV)

I think likely my spirit-man was regenerated. I believe that Jesus Christ
gave me life - even Hebrews 2:10 saying that Jesus Father God, for whom
and by whom all things exist made Jesus Christ, the founder of my
salvation, perfect through suffering shows that Jesus is the founder of
my salvation:

  I Corinthians 15:45 - Thus it is written, The first man Adam became a
  living being; the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. (ESV)

  Galatians 4:6 - And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of
  his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba! Father! (ESV)

What's interesting to me is that Jesus is the bridegroom of His church:

  Hosea 2:19-20 - And I will betroth you to me forever. I will betroth
  you to me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in
  mercy. I will betroth you to me in faithfulness. And you shall know the
  LORD. (ESV)

Read
alexiscarucci.com: Jesus is The Bridegroom - Living the Abundant Life

And Adam had a rib taken from him to make Eve:

  Genesis 2:22 - And the rib that the LORD God had taken from the man he
  made into a woman and brought her to the man. (ESV)

Being born-again of the Spirit gave me insight, and I believed God was
real.

God did it and it was a surprise:

  John 1:12-13 - But to all who did receive him, who believed in his
  name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not
  of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of
  God. (ESV)

A total surprise:

  John 3:8 - The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but
  you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with
  everyone who is born of the Spirit. (ESV)

It gave me insight:

  Proverbs 9:10 - The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and
  the knowledge of the Holy One is insight.

 2. Born of water and the spirit

People were being born according to the Spirit for quite some time before
Jesus was born of the virgin Mary but it has been restricted to the
children of promise i.e. Abraham's descendants through Isaac:

  Galatians 4:28-31 - Now you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of
  promise. But just as at that time he who was born according to the
  flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it
  is now. But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and
  her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son
  of the free woman. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave but
  of the free woman. (ESV)

  John 3:5 - Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  Ezekiel 36:24-27 - I will take you from the nations and gather you from
  all the countries and bring you into your own land. I will sprinkle
  clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses,
  and from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new
  heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the
  heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I
  will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and
  be careful to obey my rules. (ESV)

youtube.com: Nicodemus by Pastor John Piper @time: 4 min 49 sec

 3. The truth is God made them male and female, but handed erroneous,
rebellious people over to their lust in impurity

  Genesis 1:27 - So God created man in his own image, in the image of God
  he created him; male and female he created them.

  Genesis 5:2 - Male and female he created them, and he blessed them and
  named them Man when they were created.

  Genesis 6:19 - And of every living thing of all flesh, you shall bring
  two of every sort into the ark to keep them alive with you. They shall
  be male and female.

  Joel 2:27-29 - You shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and
  that I am the Lord your God and there is none else. And my people shall
  never again be put to shame. And it shall come to pass afterward, that
  I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh; your sons and your daughters
  shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men
  shall see visions. Even on the male and female servants in those days I
  will pour out my Spirit. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:4 - He answered, Have you not read that he who created them
  from the beginning made them male and female, (ESV)

  Mark 10:6 - But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and
  female. (ESV)

  Romans 1:24-32 - Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their
  hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among
  themselves, because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and
  worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is
  blessed forever! Amen. For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable
  passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that
  are contrary to nature; and the men likewise gave up natural relations
  with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men
  committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due
  penalty for their error. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge
  God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be
  done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil,
  covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit,
  maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent,
  haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish,
  faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's decree that
  those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them
  but give approval to those who practice them. (ESV)

51.13.13. We have to walk the straight and narrow to reign with Christ

  II Timothy 2:11-13 - The saying is trustworthy, for: If we have died with
  him, we will also live with him; if we endure, we will also reign with him;
  if we deny him, he also will deny us; if we are faithless, he remains
  faithful— for he cannot deny himself.

52. Employment

52.1. Kingdom work is work, but kingdom workers should still seek to carry their
own load and accept support only when in need of support

Accepting support is OK when in need, but we should still seek to bear our
own load:

  II Corinthians 11:7-9 - Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself so that
  you might be exalted, because I preached God's gospel to you free of
  charge? I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to
  serve you. And when I was with you and was in need, I did not burden
  anyone, for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied my need. So I
  refrained and will refrain from burdening you in any way. (ESV)

Jesus wants more kingdom labourers:

  Matthew 9:37-38 - Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful,
  but the laborers are few; therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the
  harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. (ESV)

The Apostles prioritised themselves to focus on prayer and devotion to the
ministry of the word over serving at tables, because it was more important
for them to focus on the ministry of the word:

  Acts 6:2-4 - Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto
  them, and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God, and
  serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of
  honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over
  this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the
  ministry of the word.

Also Paul says he does indeed have the right to be a burden on others
(because, I assume, they have given themselves to prayer and the ministry of
the word), but rather he wants to be a good example for others to follow on
how a Christian should work.

  2 Thessalonians 3:8-10 - nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for
  it, but with toil and labor we worked night and day, that we might not be a
  burden to any of you. It was not because we do not have that right, but to
  give you in ourselves an example to imitate. For even when we were with
  you, we would give you this command: If anyone is not willing to work, let
  him not eat. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 5:12-14 - We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor
  among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you, and to esteem them
  very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
  And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the fainthearted,
  help the weak, be patient with them all. (ESV)

53. Hearing the gospel progresses to abiding in Christ

  I John 2:24 - Let what you heard from the beginning abide in you. If what
  you heard from the beginning abides in you, then you too will abide in the
  Son and in the Father.

If what you heard from the beginning abides in you…

• hearing the Gospel of Jesus Christ
• Then there's letting the word abide in you
• Which leads to the following
• Then there's abiding in Jesus - believing and confessing Jesus
• Which leads to the following
• Then there's forever abiding in Jesus
• Not able to fall away

The word has to remain.

  Mark 4:3-20 - Listen! A sower went out to sow. And as he sowed, some seed
  fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it. Other seed fell on
  rocky ground, where it did not have much soil, and immediately it sprang
  up, since it had no depth of soil. And when the sun rose it was scorched,
  and since it had no root, it withered away. Other seed fell among thorns,
  and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no grain. And other
  seeds fell into good soil and produced grain, growing up and increasing and
  yielding thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold. And he said, He who
  has ears to hear, let him hear. And when he was alone, those around him
  with the twelve asked him about the parables. And he said to them, To you
  has been given the secret of the kingdom of God, but for those outside
  everything is in parables, so that they may indeed see but not perceive,
  and may indeed hear but not understand, lest they should turn and be
  forgiven. And he said to them, Do you not understand this parable? How then
  will you understand all the parables? The sower sows the word. And these
  are the ones along the path, where the word is sown: when they hear, Satan
  immediately comes and takes away the word that is sown in them. And these
  are the ones sown on rocky ground: the ones who, when they hear the word,
  immediately receive it with joy. And they have no root in themselves, but
  endure for a while; then, when tribulation or persecution arises on account
  of the word, immediately they fall away. And others are the ones sown among
  thorns. They are those who hear the word, but the cares of the world and
  the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and
  choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. But those that were sown on the
  good soil are the ones who hear the word and accept it and bear fruit,
  thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold.

Good soil:

• Hears the word
• Accepts the word
• Bears fruit

The word is spoken to us and we must receive it and nurture it and produce
fruit:

  John 15:3-4 - Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken
  to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by
  itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in
  me.

To bear fruit involves sacrificing this life for the advancement of the
kingdom:

  John 12:24-25 - Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls
  into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much
  fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this
  world will keep it for eternal life.

If your fruit abides then whatever you ask the Father in Jesus' name, He may
give you:

  John 15:16 - You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that
  you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that
  whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.

God takes away fruitless branches:

  John 15:2 - Every branch of mine that does not bear fruit he takes away,
  and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more
  fruit.

We must be fruitful branches, abiding in Jesus:

  John 15:5 - I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I
  in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do
  nothing.

54. Abiding in Christ

  Matthew 23:8 - But you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one
  teacher, and you are all brothers. (ESV)

God is our Father:

  Matthew 23:9 - And call no man your father on earth, for you have one
  Father, who is in heaven. (ESV)

Jesus Christ is our Teacher:

  Matthew 23:10 - Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor
  (G2519. kathégétés), the Christ. (ESV)

2519. kathégétés
Definition: Teacher, Leader, Guide. Meaning: a leader, teacher, guide,
master.

Jesus Christ is our Lord and Teacher - that means we believe and obey Him:

  John 13:13-14 - You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I
  am. If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought
  to wash one another's feet. (ESV)

It's imperative that as we go ahead, we must abide in the teaching of Christ,
or we won't have God (Jehovah God), and God is love and love comes from God,
so we need to abide in Christ's teachings, by belief and by obedience. For
example, in Mark 10:18, Jesus affirmed that God is Good. Therefore when we
read this, we must also be sanctified by this truth, affirming and coming
into agreement that God is Good. Also, Jesus commanded us to love one another
as He loved us John 13:34-35:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

  I John 3:23 - And this is his commandment, that we believe in the name of
  his Son Jesus Christ and love one another, just as he has commanded us.
  (ESV)

  John 13:34 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. (ESV)

We both practice and observe. We serve God in word and deed:

  Matthew 23:2-4 - The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so
  practice and observe whatever they tell you—but not what they do. For they
  preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and
  lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move
  them with their finger. (ESV)

We believe and obey Jesus:

  John 3:36 - He who believes in the Son has eternal life; but he who does
  not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him.”

God loved us first. We must accept that:

  I John 4:10-11 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he
  loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if
  God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. (ESV)

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

We must hold to our original confession and not be hardened by the
deceitfulness of sin:

  Hebrews 3:13-14 - But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called
  today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. For we
  share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end.
  (ESV)

We abide in Jesus when He washes us. When the Holy Spirit washes us, the Holy
Spirit helps us to put sin to death:

  John 13:8 - Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered
  him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. (ESV)

Peter believed/received/obeyed/trusted like a child of God (he cooperated) to
let Jesus wash him but it was Jesus doing the work:

  John 13:9 - Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only but also my
  hands and my head! (ESV)

Jesus' servants (people who believe and obey Him) are found in him. We know
Christ by living in the pattern in which he lived. Jesus' servants are those
who have accepted Jesus to wash them, and they ought to then wash one
another:

  Psalms 34:22 - The LORD redeems the life of his servants; none of those who
  take refuge in him will be condemned. (ESV)

Abiding in Christ, one abides in God.

  1 John 4:15 - Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in
  him, and he in God. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 3:23 - and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's. (ESV)

Thomas going from unbelief to belief.

  John 20:27-28 - Then he said to Thomas, Put your finger here, and see my
  hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve,
  but believe. Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God!

Jesus helped Thomas believe by giving him a commandment to do. It's implied
that Thomas obeyed and arrived at belief:

  John 20:29-31 - Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen
  me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. Now Jesus
  did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not
  written in this book; but these are written so that you may believe that
  Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have
  life in his name.

There's abiding in Christ, and then there is ABIDING FOREVER in Christ, and
forever in God.

  I John 2:17 - And the world is passing away along with its desires, but
  whoever does the will of God abides forever.

  Ephesians 6:6 - not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as
  servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,

  I John 2:6 - whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in
  which he walked. (ESV)

I believe that to abide forever in Christ, one must produce good fruit and be
a servant of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart.

  Matthew 3:8-10 - Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not presume
  to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father, for I tell you, God is
  able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe
  is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear
  good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.

I believe that producing good fruit is necessary for being saved:

• a heart that is turning away from sin
• believing the Gospel and obeying Jesus

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

youtube.com: What does it mean to be "in Christ"?

54.1. The cost of discipleship involves renouncing everything you have to achieve
perfection

When it says 'hate' here, it 'love less' and renounce, which is effectively
results in being primarily yoked to Jesus, Jesus becoming our Pearl of Great
Price by our choice.

We must value Jesus above all and detach from our old life. Coming after
Jesus as His disciple means unfollowing everything else, pretty much, and
carrying our cross:

  Luke 14:25-33 - Now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to
  them, If anyone comes to me and does not hate (miseo) his own father and
  mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his
  own life, he cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and
  come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you, desiring to build a
  tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to
  complete it? Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to
  finish, all who see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build
  and was not able to finish. Or what king, going out to encounter another
  king in war, will not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with
  ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand? And if
  not, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks
  for terms of peace. So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all
  that he has cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

I appreciate the Didache's teaching on this because it shows there is an
upwards call:

  Didache Chapter 6 - See that no one causes you to err from this way of the
  Teaching, since apart from God it teaches you. For if you are able to bear
  the entire yoke of the Lord, you will be perfect; but if you are not able
  to do this, do what you are able.

We are perfected (completed), transformed into His image, from one degree of
glory to another:

  II Corinthians 3:18 - And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory
  of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of
  glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. (ESV)

And also Paul's teaching. Being a disciple of Jesus is an upwards call:

  Philippians 3:13-14 - Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my
  own. But one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and straining forward
  to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward
  call of God in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

The Pearl of Great Price is Jesus and we want to gain Christ, know Christ and
invest our lives for His gospel. In following Jesus, eternal life is still a
free gift because as Paul says here, what we give up is worthless compared to
knowing Christ:

  Philippians 3:7-8 - But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake
  of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing
  worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the
  loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain
  Christ (ESV)

For Jesus' name's sake, basically everyone will disown/hate you for following
Jesus, except for Jesus, as you choose Jesus:

  Mark 13:13 - And you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But the one
  who endures to the end will be saved. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 12:11 - And they have conquered him by the blood of the
  Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives
  even unto death. (ESV)

The ones who are made perfect are the ones who are being sanctified:

  Hebrews 10:14 - For by a single offering he has perfected for all time
  those who are being sanctified. (ESV)

youtube.com: counting the cost of following Jesus - romans 6 college ave
young adults

54.2. How Christians agape love

• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/1_john/2-15.htm
• https://biblehub.com/greek/agapa_25.htm
• https://biblehub.com/greek/agapate_25.htm
• https://biblehub.com/greek/26.htm

Agape-love can be misplaced. We go from agape-loving (treasuring, valuing)
darkness to agape-loving (treasuring, valuing) light:

  John 3:16-20 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God
  did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that
  the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not
  condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he
  has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the
  judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved (25. agapaó)
  the darkness rather than the light (5457. phós) because their deeds were
  evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come
  to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed. (ESV)

Genuine agape loves the light. The Truth of God is light and is good and is
not wicked:

  Romans 12:9 - Let love (G26 agapé) be genuine (G505 anupokritos). Abhor
  what is evil; hold fast to what is good. (ESV)

Thus so (Houtōs) (in this way) did God love (25. agapaó - value,treasure) the
world, that He gave His Only-Begotten (G3439. monogenēs - unique,only
begotten) Son that (G2443 hina - in order that) everyone who is
trusting/believing in Him may not perish, but may have life everlasting:

biblehub.com 3-16.htm: John 3:16 Interlinear: for God did so love the world,
that His Son – the only begotten – He gave, that every one who is believing
in him may not perish, but may have life age-during.

54.2.1. Who Christians must agape love

• God (Father God, Jesus Christ and Holy Spirit)
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/1_john/2-15.htm
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/matthew/22-37.htm
• Matthew 22:37 - And He said to him You shall love (25 Agapēseis)
[the] Lord the God of you with all the heart of you and with all the
soul of you and with all the mind of you (Interlinear)
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/john/14-23.htm
• Your spouse
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/ephesians/5-28.htm
• Others in Christ
• Colossians 3:14 - And above all these put on love (26. agapé), which
binds everything together in perfect harmony. (ESV)

54.2.2. Who Christians are called to agape love:

• All people, even enemies
• https://biblehub.com/greek/agapa_25.htm
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/matthew/5-44.htm

  Galatians 6:10 - So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to
  everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. (ESV)

Those who listen to those who are in Christ are of God. Those who listen to
world are of the world.

  I John 4:5-6 - They are from the world; therefore they speak from the
  world, and the world listens to them. We are from God. Whoever knows God
  listens to us; whoever is not from God does not listen to us. By this we
  know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error. (ESV)

  John 17:14-15 - I have given them your word, and the world has hated them
  because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not
  ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the
  evil one. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:14-16 - Do all things without grumbling or questioning, that
  you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the
  midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights
  in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of
  Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. (ESV)

54.2.3. What Christians must not agape love

• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/1_john/2-15.htm

Agape love must not be to anything of the world:

Book
timothykeller.com: Counterfeit Gods - Timothy Keller

Sermon
youtube.com: Counterfeit Gods - Tim Keller

Agape-ing things of this world is worldly-mindedness and makes it very
difficult to discern the will of God:

  Luke 11:43 - Woe to you Pharisees! For you love (agapate) the best seat in
  the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces. (ESV)

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

54.3. The slave to sin doesn't abide forever. Repentance from sin is essential
for eternal life

  John 8:34-35 - Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone
  who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house
  forever; the son remains forever.

Like begets like:

• Like Father,
• like Son (Jesus).
• Like disciple of Jesus / adopted son

  John 5:19 - So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can
  do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For
  whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. (ESV)

youtube.com: God sees what your going through and he wants you to hear this
message

  Matthew 5:44-45 - But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those
  who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven;
  for He causes His sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on
  the righteous and the unrighteous.

  Matthew 5:48 - Therefore you are to be perfect, as your heavenly Father is
  perfect.

  I Peter 1:16 - because it is written, “You shall be holy, for I am holy.”

  Luke 10:6 - And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him.
  But if not, it will return to you.

54.4. Having the Spirit given to us and keeping Jesus' commandments

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us.

54.5. Eternal life is forever abiding

A person must do the will of God for that.

The will of God is that we have faith in God and faith in Jesus. The
work/will of God is that we believe in Him whom He has sent - believing in
Jesus - faithing in Jesus. The will of God is that we are bondservants of
Christ from the heart. The will of God is that we repent from sin. The will
of God is that we do good

Eternal salvation is given to those who obey Jesus:

  Hebrews 5:8-10 - Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what
  he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after
  the order of Melchizedek.

Jesus' sheep follow Jesus:

  John 10:27-30 - My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
  me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will
  snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater
  than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and
  the Father are one.

Accomplishing the will of God the Father is food:

  John 4:34-38 - Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who
  sent me and to accomplish his work. Do you not say, There are yet four
  months, then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and
  see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who reaps is
  receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and
  reaper may rejoice together. For here the saying holds true, One sows and
  another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others
  have labored, and you have entered into their labor.

  II John 1:2 - because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us
  forever:

Jesus' teaching is from Father God. We are supposed to obey Jesus Christ, and
that's obeying God:

  II John 1:9 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching
  of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the
  Father and the Son.

  John 7:16 - So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who
  sent me.

Jesus says we must do the will of God:

  Mark 3:35 - Whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and
  mother.

The will of God must be discerned through testing with a renewed mind:

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

Loving one another is the will of God:

  II Corinthians 8:3-5 - For they gave according to their means, as I can
  testify, and beyond their means, of their own free will, begging us
  earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints— and
  this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and
  then by the will of God to us. (ESV)

Controlling our own body in holiness and honor is the will of God:

  I Thessalonians 4:3-5 - For this is the will of God, your sanctification:
  that you abstain from sexual immorality; that each one of you know how to
  control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust like
  the Gentiles who do not know God; (ESV)

The will of God is that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance
of foolish people:

  I Peter 2:15 - For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should
  put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. (ESV)

The will of God is that we should not be materialistic or worldly. We must
limit our agape love to God and to other people, especially our family in
Christ and not agape love anything of the world:

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

If we get conformed to the world then we won't be able to discern the will of
God:

  Romans 12:1-2 - I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God,
  to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God,
  which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be
  transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern
  what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

After doing the will of God, and not shrinking back, we receive what is
promised:

  Hebrews 10:36-38 - For you have need of endurance, so that when you have
  done the will of God you may receive what is promised. For, Yet a little
  while, and the coming one will come and will not delay; but my righteous
  one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in
  him. (ESV)

We must believe in Jesus Christ and follow Jesus Christ's teaching:

  John 6:28-40 - Then they said to him, What must we do, to be doing the
  works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you
  believe in him whom he has sent. So they said to him, Then what sign do you
  do, that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Our fathers
  ate the manna in the wilderness; as it is written, He gave them bread from
  heaven to eat. Jesus then said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, it was
  not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the
  true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from
  heaven and gives life to the world. They said to him, Sir, give us this
  bread always. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; whoever comes to
  me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. But I
  said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. All that the
  Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast
  out. For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will but the will
  of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should
  lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day.
  For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and
  believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the
  last day.

We must accept Jesus, believe in Jesus, believe Jesus, and keep Jesus' words
- all of that together is abiding in the light:

  John 12:46-48 - I have come into the world as light, so that whoever
  believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and
  does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the
  world but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my
  words has a judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last
  day. (ESV)

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation,
  a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of
  him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. (ESV)

  Titus 2:14 - who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and
  to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for
  good works. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 5:11 - But now I am writing to you not to associate with
  anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality
  or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler—not even to eat
  with such a one.

  Ephesians 6:6 - not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as
  servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,

  I John 2:17 - And the world is passing away along with its desires, but
  whoever does the will of God abides forever. (ESV)

Book
timothykeller.com: Counterfeit Gods - Timothy Keller

Sermon
youtube.com: Counterfeit Gods - Tim Keller

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

  I John 2:14 - I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the
  beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word
  of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one. (ESV)

  I John 2:17 - The world (G2889 kosmos) is passing (G3855 parago) away
  (G3855 parago), and also its lusts (G1939 epithumia); but the one who does
  (G4160 poieo) the will (G2307 thelema) of God (G2316 theos) lives (G3306
  meno) forever (G165 aion).

|  :  3306  meno  men'-o
| 
|   a primary verb; to stay (in a given place, state, relation or
|   expectancy):--abide, continue, dwell, endure, be present, remain,
|   stand, tarry (for), X thine own.

54.6. Whoever truly believes / has faith in Jesus has eternal life

  John 3:33 - Whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this, that God
  is true.

  John 4:13-14 - Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be
  thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will
  never be thirsty forever. The water that I will give him will become in him
  a spring of water welling up to eternal life.

A spring which wells up to eternal life.

So a person believed and they embark on a relationship with God, leading to
eternal life. It wells-up to eternal life. So if they receive the living
water then they receive eternal life. When was eternal life received? When
the person first truly believed, I guess.

Accomplishing the will of God the Father is food.

  John 4:34-38 - Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who
  sent me and to accomplish his work. Do you not say, There are yet four
  months, then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and
  see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who reaps is
  receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and
  reaper may rejoice together. For here the saying holds true, One sows and
  another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others
  have labored, and you have entered into their labor.

Discern the will of God.

  Romans 12:2 Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.

Yes, believing in Jesus is obeying the gospel - but there is so much more to
the gospel! Doing the will of God.

Obeying the gospel and having faith in Jesus comes from hearing Jesus' words
(his teachings). Sharing the gospel is speak to people what Jesus has spoken
and allowing them to trust Jesus' words, and in trusting Jesus' words we
trust in Jesus:

  Romans 10:14-17 - But how are they to call on him in whom they have not
  believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard?
  And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to
  preach unless they are sent? As it is written, How beautiful are the feet
  of those who preach the good news! But they have not all obeyed the gospel.
  For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? So faith
  comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. (ESV)

Those that obey Jesus' voice He will give eternal life:

  Romans 2:7-8 - to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and
  honor and immortality, he will give eternal life; but for those who are
  self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there
  will be wrath and fury.

54.6.1. Every human being who does evil will receive tribulation and distress.
God is fair.

  Romans 2:9-11 - There will be tribulation and distress for every human
  being who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor
  and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For
  God shows no partiality.

54.6.2. Human beings were totally at the mercy of God. We needed Jesus to come.
We still need Jesus

  Romans 3:10-13 - as it is written: None is righteous, no, not one; no one
  understands; no one seeks for God. All have turned aside; together they
  have become worthless; no one does good, not even one. Their throat is an
  open grave; they use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under
  their lips.

  Psalms 53:1-3 - The fool says in his heart, There is no God. They are
  corrupt, doing abominable iniquity; there is none who does good. To the
  choirmaster: according to Mahalath. A Maskil of David. God looks down from
  heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who
  seek after God. They have all fallen away; together they have become
  corrupt; there is none who does good, not even one. (ESV)

54.6.3. Atonement and sanctification, and eternal life in Jesus - righteousness
apart from the works of the law

The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ is available for all
who believe. It is received by faith, and God is the one who justifies us. We
must hold faith in Jesus and seek God's justification. We don't justify
ourselves. Faith continues. I think it's really important to believe, trust
in and obey Jesus since that's what Abraham's faith was like - it was
believing, trusting and obedient:

  Romans 3:20-26 - For by works of the law no human being will be justified
  in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. But now the
  righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the
  Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the righteousness of God through
  faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction: for
  all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by
  his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom
  God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith.
  This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he
  had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the
  present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has
  faith in Jesus. (ESV)

If followed flawlessly then the law justifies. By faith in Jesus we await the
hope of justification by God.

Jesus both followed the law flawlessly and fulfilled the law prophetically,
and was convicted by sinners. Jesus is our atonement.

  Hebrews 9:26 - for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the
  foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the
  end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. (ESV)

  1 Peter 3:18 - For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for
  the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the
  flesh but made alive in the spirit, (ESV)

  Leviticus 17:11 - For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have
  given it for you on the altar to make atonement for your souls, for it is
  the blood that makes atonement by the life. (ESV)

  Hebrews 9:22 - Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with
  blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.
  (ESV)

  John 1:29 - The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, Behold,
  the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! (ESV)

  1 John 2:2 - He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but
  also for the sins of the whole world. (ESV)

In Jesus, there is no sin.

  1 John 3:5 - You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there
  is no sin. (ESV)

  Mark 10:45 - For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve,
  and to give his life as a ransom for many. (ESV)

By His stripes we are healed, and then we live to serve Jesus:

  Isaiah 53:5 - But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for
  our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and
  with his stripes we are healed. (ESV)

Propitiation by Jesus' blood is to be received by faith.

  Romans 3:25 - whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be
  received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. (ESV)

  1 Corinthians 15:3 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, (ESV)

God has enabled us to die to sin and live to righteousness.

  1 Peter 2:24 - He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we
  might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been
  healed. (ESV)

We are cleaned up by having faith in the truth. Having faith is a continuing
process.

We must both believe the truth and be sanctified, and try to forsake sin
(i.e. purify ourselves):

  II Thessalonians 2:11-14 - Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so
  that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who
  did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. But we ought
  always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because
  God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the
  Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel,
  so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

54.7. Abiding in Christ through His name

• Maintaining actual belief in Jesus is the basic requirement which
prevents you from being cut off, because the life is in His name.
• Believing on His name
• Trusts in Jesus
• He is your Saviour in reality - entrusted yourself to Him

Believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Believe in, believe with.
Trust in.

Having life in Jesus Christ's name by believing and trusting in Jesus Christ
- Absolutely. And with obedience to Jesus, He has promised eternal life.

  Matthew 16:16 - Simon Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the
  living God.

  John 20:31 - but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is
  the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his
  name. (ESV)

  Exodus 23:21 - Pay attention to him, and listen to his voice. Don't provoke
  him, for he will not pardon your disobedience, for my name is in him.

God's name was in the angel:

  Exodus 23:20-22 - Behold, I send an angel before you to guard you on the
  way and to bring you to the place that I have prepared. Pay careful
  attention to him and obey his voice; do not rebel against him, for he will
  not pardon your transgression, for my name is in him. But if you carefully
  obey his voice and do all that I say, then I will be an enemy to your
  enemies and an adversary to your adversaries.

Believing is just the starting point. This is honestly just the starting
point. Obedience is expected. Also, Jesus is forgiving, unlike the angel.

Continuing to trust in Jesus as the Messiah, your Saviour, and the
Only-begotten Son of God through patient endurance is enough to get saved, I
think, but it's not enough to be counted a 'disciple' of Jesus.

And it's 'saved' but 'being saved' at the same time.

One wants to progress from 'believing that' to having Jesus abide inside
them.

I think that rejects His commandments but claiming to believe in Jesus Christ
as the Son of God is an extremely precarious, and tentative position to be
in, and may indicate that the person doesn't really believe.

And if a person doesn't believe in reality, then that person probably isn't
saved - so they are only lying to themself that they are saved.

However, if a person trusts him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is
counted as righteousness.

Trusting Him means having faith in Him, obeying, believing in God and having
the fear of God, believing, following, yielding to Jesus. Ungodly here means
wicked or behaviour not in accordance with the knowledge of God. Only God can
justify the ungodly, so that's why by following Him, knowing we can be
ungodly, we have the hope of God justifying us:

  Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts (G4100 pisteuo)
  him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, (ESV)

This qualifies:

  Luke 18:13 - But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift
  up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me,
  a sinner! (ESV)

54.8. Jesus abiding in you / me

It quickly progresses to obeying Jesus, receiving the Spirit.

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us.

54.9. Loving God and loving Jesus and loving others and abiding in His love

  I John 5:2 - By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love
  God and obey his commandments.

  I John 5:3-4 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has been born of
  God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the
  world—our faith.

  II John 1:5-6 - And now I ask you, dear lady—not as though I were writing
  you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning—that we
  love one another. And this is love, that we walk according to his
  commandments; this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the
  beginning, so that you should walk in it. (ESV)

54.10. Saint - an imitator of Jesus - keeps the commandments of God and has faith
in Jesus

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just
  as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. (ESV)

Video
youtube.com: Called to Be Saints | Charles Spurgeon | Devotional | Morning &
Evening: Daily Readings

Quote by Charles Spurgeon
All are "saints" whom God has called by His grace and sanctified by His
Spirit;

  Ephesians 1:1 - Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, To the
  saints who are in Ephesus, and are faithful in Christ Jesus:

  Revelation of John 12:17 - Then the dragon became furious with the woman
  and went off to make war on the rest of her offspring, on those who keep
  the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus. And he stood on
  the sand of the sea.

  Revelation of John 14:12 - Here is a call for the endurance of the saints,
  those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus.

  Psalms 97:10 - O you who love the Lord, hate evil! He preserves the lives
  of his saints; he delivers them from the hand of the wicked.

54.11. Followers of Jesus - the saints (people who keep God's commandments) judge
the world

  Matthew 19:16-30 - And behold, a man came up to him, saying, Teacher, what
  good deed must I do to have eternal life? And he said to him, Why do you
  ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would
  enter life, keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus
  said, You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not
  steal, You shall not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother, and,
  You shall love your neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All
  these I have kept. What do I still lack? Jesus said to him, If you would be
  perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have
  treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. When the young man heard this he
  went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his
  disciples, Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person
  enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to
  go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom
  of God. When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished,
  saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With man
  this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. Then Peter said
  in reply, See, we have left everything and followed you. What then will we
  have? Jesus said to them, Truly, I say to you, in the new world, when the
  Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will
  also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And
  everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or
  children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold and will
  inherit eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last
  first.

  I Corinthians 6:2 - Or do you not know that the saints will judge the
  world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try
  trivial cases?

54.12. Saints inherit the Kingdom with Jesus

  Daniel 7:18 - But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and
  possess the kingdom forever, forever and ever. (ESV)

  Revelation 2:26-28 - The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the
  end, to him I will give authority over the nations, and he will rule them
  with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I
  myself have received authority from my Father. And I will give him the
  morning star. (ESV)

54.13. Be humble in this world and serve others of humble circumstances while in
this world

  James 1:9-11 - But the brother of humble circumstances is to glory in his
  high position; and the rich man is to glory in his humiliation, because
  like flowering grass he will pass away. For the sun rises with a scorching
  wind and withers the grass; and its flower falls off and the beauty of its
  appearance is destroyed; so too the rich man in the midst of his pursuits
  will fade away. (NASB)

  Matthew 6:19-21 - Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where
  moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for
  yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and
  where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there
  your heart will be also.

  John 12:25 - Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in
  this world will keep it for eternal life.

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 25:35-40 - For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and
  you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and
  you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came
  to me. Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see
  you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see
  you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And when did we
  see you sick or in prison and visit you? And the King will answer them,
  Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my
  brothers, you did it to me.

54.13.1. Jesus' friends are those who actually do what Jesus says

We don't transition away from being servants of Jesus when we become friends
of Jesus - we still serve and obey Him. Jesus started calling His servants
His friends because Jesus had explained to them all He heard from Father God.
Jesus' friends still serve Jesus, and they obey Jesus but they also know what
Jesus is doing.

  John 15:14-15 - You are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer
  do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is
  doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my
  Father I have made known to you.

54.14. Entering the kingdom of heaven

It's possible while here on earth:

  Luke 9:27 - But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who will not
  taste death until they see the kingdom of God.

We have to be born-again from above. We should start by trusting and
believing Jesus:

  John 3:3-12 - Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born again he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can
  a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's
  womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That
  which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit
  is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born again. The
  wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know
  where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of
  the Spirit. Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered
  him, Are you the teacher of Israel and yet you do not understand these
  things? Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know, and bear
  witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. If I
  have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if
  I tell you heavenly things? (ESV)

We must humble ourselves and have believing, trusting faith in God to enter
the kingdom:

  Matthew 18:2-6 - And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of
  them and said, Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like
  children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles
  himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Whoever
  receives one such child in my name receives me, but whoever causes one of
  these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to
  have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the
  depth of the sea. (ESV)

Boldly following the commandments properly from the heart and in reality,
believing God exists, exercising faith, walking in faith, trusting in Jesus,
repenting from sin, turning to God is a good thing to do. Humbling ourselves
takes a chance on God:

  I Kings 11:38 - And if you will listen to all that I command you, and will
  walk in my ways, and do what is right in my eyes by keeping my statutes and
  my commandments, as David my servant did, I will be with you and will build
  you a sure house, as I built for David, and I will give Israel to you.

We must take a chance on God and do what the Bible says we should do to enter
into the Kingdom of Heaven. If we come under Jesus' Lordship and we are
trusting and obedient to Jesus then we will do Father God's will:

  Matthew 7:21 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

God wants us to stop having an earthly, carnal mind, and for us to pursue Him
and be obedient to Him:

  1 Thessalonians 4:3 - For this is the will of God, your sanctification:
  that you abstain from sexual immorality; (ESV)

  II Corinthians 6:17 - Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate
  from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome
  you, (ESV)

God wants us to continue in faith with Him, even when things get challenging:

  I Peter 2:15 - For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should
  put to silence the ignorance of foolish people.

Obey the word:

  I Peter 2:8 - and A stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense. They stumble
  because they disobey the word, as they were destined to do.

Jesus is the cornerstone. We must believe in Christ Jesus and obey His words,
and let his words abide in us and continue in them.

54.15. Knowing Jesus, knowing God, knowing Jehovah God

To know Jesus and Father God, then you must follow His commandments, and they
must not be a burden on us, but we follow them with the faith of Abraham.

We want to know Jesus experientially because Jesus has made us His own:

  Philippians 3:12 - Not that I have already obtained this or am already
  perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me
  his own. (ESV)

Knowing God means we know that God loved us first, even loved us as God loved
Jesus:

  John 17:23 - I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one,
  so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you
  loved me. (ESV)

Knowing God means loving as Jesus loved us:

  I John 4:6-7 - We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is
  not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and
  the spirit of error. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from
  God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

  I John 4:8-11 - Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is
  love. In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his
  only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. In this is
  love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to
  be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also
  ought to love one another.

Jesus commanded us to love one another in the way He loved us:

  John 13:34 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. (ESV)

We must walk in the manner that he walked:

  I John 2:3-6 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, but whoever keeps his
  word, in him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may be sure
  that we are in him: whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same
  way in which he walked. (ESV)

  I John 5:3-4 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has been born of
  God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the
  world—our faith.

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

Obeying Jesus is a very serious matter:

  II Thessalonians 1:8 - in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who
  do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus.
  (ESV)

Getting to know Jesus will come to result in you too abiding in the Son and
in the Father.

  I John 2:24 - Let what you heard from the beginning abide in you. If what
  you heard from the beginning abides in you, then you too will abide in the
  Son and in the Father.

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us.

My intuition says that walking as Jesus walked and obeying His commandments
and believing in the truth produces in us an empathy for Jesus.

Meaning of the word empathy:
"understanding and entering into another's feelings"

We can know in part what Jesus experienced by walking in the truth as he
walked.

However, I believe keeping Jesus' word and obeying Jesus also leads to
communion with Him and with Father God in the Spirit:

Meaning of the word communion:
"sharing thoughts and feelings"

  John 14:22-23 - Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, Lord, how is it that you
  will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world? Jesus answered him, If
  anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we
  will come to him and make our home with him.

Knowing Jesus Christ and Him crucified means believing the testimony and also
knowing Jesus experientially through becoming like Him in His death. Believe
God's testimony concerning His Son. Know the testimony:

  I Corinthians 2:1-2 - And I, when I came to you, brothers, did not come
  proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. For I
  decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified.
  (ESV)

  I John 5:10 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. (ESV)

Know Jesus experientially:

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

Dying to sin an immediate thing and living to Christ, becoming like Jesus in
His death is a lifelong (while on this earth) process. Also, starting to live
for God is an immediate thing, and to be with God is the long-term thing:

  Romans 6:8-10 - Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will
  also live with him. We know that Christ being raised from the dead will
  never die again; death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he
  died he died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God.
  (ESV)

  John 15:3-12 - Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken
  to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by
  itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in
  me. I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him,
  he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. If
  anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch and withers;
  and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. If you
  abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will
  be done for you. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit
  and so prove to be my disciples. As the Father has loved me, so have I
  loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in
  my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his
  love. These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and
  that your joy may be full. This is my commandment, that you love one
  another as I have loved you. (ESV)

54.15.1. Anyone who doesn't abide will be thrown away like a branch and
withers. Eventually they will be into the fire (Hell, I assume)

  John 15:6 - If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch
  and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and
  burned.

54.16. His name: Jesus Christ, the Son of God

  Luke 1:31-35 - And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son,
  and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the
  Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his
  father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his
  kingdom there will be no end. And Mary said to the angel, How will this be,
  since I am a virgin? And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come
  upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the
  child to be born will be called holy—the Son of God. (ESV)

  Acts 3:16 - And his name—by faith in his name—has made this man strong whom
  you see and know, and the faith that is through Jesus has given the man
  this perfect health in the presence of you all. (ESV)

Jesus reigns and inherits all things. Jesus is the radiance of the glory of
God:

  Hebrews 1:1-4 - Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our
  fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his
  Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created
  the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of
  his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After
  making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty
  on high, having become as much superior to angels as the name he has
  inherited is more excellent than theirs. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:9-11 - Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on
  him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every
  knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every
  tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
  (ESV)

  John 17:11-12 - And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world,
  and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have
  given me, that they may be one, even as we are one. While I was with them,
  I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and
  not one of them has been lost except the son of destruction, that the
  Scripture might be fulfilled. (ESV)

54.17. Deeply abiding in Jesus, abiding in Jesus Christ's love, and
passing-forward Christ's love

We must receive Jesus:

  John 5:42-43 - But I know that you do not have the love of God within you.
  I have come in my Father's name, and you do not receive me. If another
  comes in his own name, you will receive him. (ESV)

• Loving Jesus and abiding in His love involves keeping His commandments
• Love one another as He loved us - the same way, selflessly,
forgivingly, mercifully, compassionately
• Love God faithfully
• An indicator is that the world hates you
• Keeping all of Jesus' words, keeping His commandments
• Ask whatever you wish
• Bear fruit
• Forgiving others, loving others (charity, etc.)
• Bringing others to Christ
• Prove to be a disciple of Jesus

54.17.1. Abiding forever vs abiding - there's a difference

  Psalms 125:1 - Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which
  cannot be moved, but abides forever.

  I John 2:17 - And the world is passing away along with its desires, but
  whoever does the will of God abides forever.

54.18. The fruit (work) of disciples of Jesus then abides

  John 15:2 - Every branch of mine that does not bear fruit he takes away,
  and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more
  fruit.

  John 15:5 - I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I
  in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do
  nothing.

  John 15:8 - By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so
  prove to be my disciples.

  John 15:16 - You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that
  you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that
  whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.

54.19. Secure rewards and a guarantee of eternal life for Jesus' disciples

  Matthew 19:29 - And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or
  father or mother or children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a
  hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. (ESV)

  Luke 14:26-28 If anyone comes to me and does not hate (3404. miseó, 3404
  miséō – properly, to detest (on a comparative basis); hence, denounce; to
  love someone or something less than someone (something) else, i.e. to
  renounce one choice in favor of another.) his own father and mother and
  wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he
  cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after
  me cannot be my disciple. For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does
  not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete
  it?

  John 12:25 - Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in
  this world will keep it for eternal life. (ESV)

I'm pretty convinced that what Jesus means by the following is that by giving
up earthly treasure in the pursuit of Jesus, heavenly treasure is acquired.
I'd say it's likely that the heavenly treasure is simply helping those
people. So selling what a person possesses and giving to those in need,
though apart from faith in Jesus isn't a "requirement for eternal life", it
is a fast track to serving Jesus and getting our heart in heaven and leaning
on Jesus, so doing as Jesus said in obedient faith is already starting to
follow Jesus and store up heavenly treasure. Seek heavenly reward, not
earthly reward. Have a heart seeking reward from God and not from man. Have
your heart in heaven, not in earth. We give up our earthly treasure and help
other people with it and this becomes heavenly treasure, and we then go after
Jesus as our Pearl of Great Price:

  Matthew 6:19-21 - Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where
  moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for
  yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and
  where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there
  your heart will be also. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

54.19.1. Eternal life is receiving an eternal name, I think

  Isaiah 56:5 - I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a
  name better than sons and daughters; I will give them an everlasting name
  that shall not be cut off. (ESV)

Receiving an eternal name.

Becoming a part of the Truth. Full union with God.

54.20. The work of God, believing in Jesus

  John 6:29-40 - Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you
  believe in him whom he has sent. So they said to him, Then what sign do you
  do, that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Our fathers
  ate the manna in the wilderness; as it is written, He gave them bread from
  heaven to eat. Jesus then said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, it was
  not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the
  true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from
  heaven and gives life to the world. They said to him, Sir, give us this
  bread always. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life; whoever comes to
  me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. But I
  said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. All that the
  Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast
  out. For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will but the will
  of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should
  lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day.
  For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and
  believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the
  last day.

Jesus doesn't cast people out.

All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will
never cast out.

I think that salvation is a totally free gift and the baseline salvation is
trusting in Jesus, because of His finished work done on the cross. But the
people that oppose obeying the full gospel of Jesus saying that works oppose
grace are very deluded.

We're supposed to do good works of faith by Jesus' power so that Jesus' name
is glorified - and those works done in Jesus' power are entirely given by
grace to us:

  II Thessalonians 1:11-12 - To this end we always pray for you, that our God
  may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good
  and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus
  may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God
  and the Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

But salvation is a gift and God is sovereign to save. That's why it's grace.
Saved by grace through faith.

I think a person needs some faith to be saved, and faith works.

It's God's grace that enables us to be saved through faith. While we are
saved exercising obedient, trusting, believing faith, Paul says it was
actually God's doing:

  Ephesians 2:8 - For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is
  not your own doing; it is the gift of God, (ESV)

54.21. We in Christ, Christ in us

youtube.com: What Does it Mean to be in Christ?

  I Corinthians 3:23 - and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's. (ESV)

54.21.1. Jesus Christ is in us

  Galatians 2:20 - I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who
  live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I
  live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
  (ESV)

  Romans 8:10 - But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of
  sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. (ESV)

54.21.2. We are in Christ

  Galatians 2:4 - Yet because of false brothers secretly brought in—who
  slipped in to spy out our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, so that
  they might bring us into slavery— (ESV)

  Romans 8:1 - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in
  Christ Jesus.

54.21.3. Our life is hidden with Christ in God

  Colossians 3:3 - For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in
  God. (ESV)

54.22. Only God the Father could graft people in and out of Christ - but Jesus
intercedes for us

A person would have to reject Jesus to be grafted out, I think. Then again,
God might still not do that.

We must be perpetually approaching Jesus:

  John 6:37 - All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes
  to me I will never cast out. (ESV)

youtube.com: John Piper - Saved Forever @time: 17 min 36 sec

What do I need in order to be saved forever, and the answer is, I need to
keep drawing near to God through Jesus.

Therefore, I think that's what he prays.

It says in Hebrews 13:21 that by the blood of the Eternal Covenant this Jesus
was raised and through Jesus God is working in you that which is pleasing in
his sight.

Through Jesus, God is working what is pleasing in his sight, namely a drawing
near to God through Jesus. But if God is working our drawing near to him so
that He's stirring up within me and you a desire to draw near to God through
Him, what does it mean that he's doing it through Jesus? The answer is Jesus
is praying for it.

  Luke 22:32 - but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And
  when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. (ESV)

We are commanded to reject the idols to treasure God first. If we do this
then we draw near to God and God draws near to us:

  II Corinthians 6:17-18 - Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate
  from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome
  you, and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to
  me, says the Lord Almighty. (ESV)

  James 4:8 - Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your
  hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. (ESV)

  Psalms 73:25-28 - Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on
  earth that I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is
  the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are
  far from you shall perish; you put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to
  you. But for me it is good to be near God; I have made the Lord GOD my
  refuge, that I may tell of all your works. (ESV)

So most importantly, believe in Jesus, and that he has paid the price for
your sin with His blood, and continue in relationship with Jesus with Him as
your number one agape, Pearl of Great Price.

Have in your heart faith in Jesus Christ as your Lord and Saviour:

  Hebrews 3:12 - Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil,
  unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God.

Bear fruit for Jesus (be obedient):

  John 15:2 - Every branch of mine that does not bear fruit he takes away,
  and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more
  fruit. (ESV)

Those who do not abide in Jesus are grafted out:

  John 15:6 - If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch
  and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and
  burned. (ESV)

Yet they can be grafted back in:

  Romans 11:23 - And even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief,
  will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again.

The relationship is essential! So take stopping sin seriously, and keep
Jesus' words and His commandments, and also bearing fruit for Jesus.

  Revelation of John 3:2-3 - Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is
  about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my
  God. So remember what you have received and heard; and keep it, and repent.
  Therefore if you do not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not
  know at what hour I will come to you.

  John 15:1-14 - I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. Every
  branch of mine that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch
  that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you
  are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I
  in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the
  vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the
  branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much
  fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me
  he is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered,
  thrown into the fire, and burned. If you abide in me, and my words abide in
  you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. By this my Father
  is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. As
  the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep
  my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's
  commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you, that
  my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. This is my
  commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love
  has no one than this, that someone lays down his life for his friends. You
  are my friends if you do what I command you.

  Romans 11:15-32 - For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the
  world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead? If the dough
  offered as firstfruits is holy, so is the whole lump, and if the root is
  holy, so are the branches. But if some of the branches were broken off, and
  you, although a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among the others and now
  share in the nourishing root of the olive tree, do not be arrogant toward
  the branches. If you are, remember it is not you who support the root, but
  the root that supports you. Then you will say, Branches were broken off so
  that I might be grafted in. That is true. They were broken off because of
  their unbelief, but you stand fast through faith. So do not become proud,
  but stand in awe. For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither
  will he spare you. Note then the kindness and the severity of God: severity
  toward those who have fallen, but God's kindness to you, provided you
  continue in his kindness. Otherwise you too will be cut off. And even they,
  if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God has
  the power to graft them in again. For if you were cut from what is by
  nature a wild olive tree, and grafted, contrary to nature, into a
  cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, the natural branches, be
  grafted back into their own olive tree. Lest you be wise in your own
  conceits, I want you to understand this mystery, brothers: a partial
  hardening has come upon Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come
  in. And in this way all Israel will be saved, as it is written, The
  Deliverer will come from Zion, he will banish ungodliness from Jacob; and
  this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins. As regards
  the gospel, they are enemies of God for your sake. But as regards election,
  they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. For the gifts and the
  calling of God are irrevocable. Just as you were at one time disobedient to
  God but now have received mercy because of their disobedience, so they too
  have now been disobedient in order that by the mercy shown to you they also
  may now receive mercy. For God has consigned all to disobedience (543.
  apeitheia - willful unbelief, obstinancy, disobedience), that he may have
  mercy on all.

  Matthew 12:33-37 - Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make
  the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. You
  brood of vipers! How can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the
  abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. The good person out of his good
  treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure
  brings forth evil. I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give
  account for every careless word they speak, for by your words you will be
  justified, and by your words you will be condemned. (ESV)

Rebellion = disobedience.

  1 Samuel 15:23 - For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption
  is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the
  LORD, he has also rejected you from being king. (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:6 - Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of
  these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. (ESV)

54.23. The law of Christ

We are still under a 'law of faith', but we are not under the Mosaic law.

We are under the law of Christ which is a law of faith.

But the Mosaic law still exists.

  I Corinthians 9:21 - To those outside the law I became as one outside the
  law (not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ) that I
  might win those outside the law.

  Galatians 6:2 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ.

  I John 3:4-11 - Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices
  lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away
  sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on
  sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.
  Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is
  righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of
  the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason
  the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born
  of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he
  cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. By this it is
  evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the devil:
  whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who
  does not love his brother. For this is the message that you have heard from
  the beginning, that we should love one another.

54.24. Sharing Jesus' holiness / personal righteousness (fruit of righteousness)
- coming after faith in Jesus

54.24.1. Have faith in Jesus; Believe in Him, and be obedient to Him, following
His teaching

We are innocent because we are being obedient to Jesus:

  Matthew 10:16-17 - Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of
  wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves. Beware of men, for
  they will deliver you over to courts and flog you in their synagogues,
  (ESV)

Remain obedient to Jesus, and do not take vengeance for yourself:

  Romans 12:19-20 - Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the
  wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the
  Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty,
  give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on
  his head. (ESV)

Following Jesus' example of being obedient:

  Philippians 2:8 - And being found in human form, he humbled himself by
  becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. (ESV)

  Hebrews 5:7-8 - In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and
  supplications, with loud cries and tears, to him who was able to save him
  from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. Although he was a
  son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. (ESV)

54.24.2. The yoke of the Lord Jesus

Firstly, Paul commends going above and even beyond one's means:

  II Corinthians 8:3-5 - For they gave according to their means, as I can
  testify, and beyond their means, of their own free will, begging us
  earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints— and
  this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and
  then by the will of God to us. (ESV)

There is an amount of how much a person is following Jesus:

"resisted to the point of shedding your blood."

  Hebrews 12:1-11 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. In your struggle against sin you have not yet resisted to
  the point of shedding your blood. And have you forgotten the exhortation
  that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of
  the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the
  one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives. It is for
  discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what
  son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without
  discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate
  children and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who
  disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to
  the Father of spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as
  it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may
  share his holiness. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than
  pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those
  who have been trained by it.

If a person is obedient and doing the will of God then God can use that
person's human will and exertion. Jesus was faithful to God. Jesus was
obedient to God.

I'm reluctant to use external sources outside of the Bible, but this is also
described in the Didache.

The Didache's estimated range of dating is 50-120 A.D, according to
earlychristianwritings.com.

  Didache Chapter 6 - See that no one causes you to err from this way of the
  Teaching, since apart from God it teaches you. For if you are able to bear
  the entire yoke of the Lord, you will be perfect; but if you are not able
  to do this, do what you are able.

  Matthew 5:47-48 - And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you
  doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must
  be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.

Of course, I believe God doesn't send all His servants to be martyred, but
probably uses what amount a person is willing to bear for the Lord Jesus.

Quote from John Piper
"We don't kill to spread our kingdom. We die to spread our kingdom." AMEN!!

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me.

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.

  Luke 9:23 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him deny
  himself and take up his cross daily and follow me.

youtube.com: C.S. Lewis - God is guiding our lives to the best path @time: 17
min 54 sec
You will be motivated to follow God's ways with increased passion. Divine
love is incomparable and reveals itself in extraordinary ways. Curiously, the
closer you get to God, the more intensely you feel love for Him. We love
because He first loved us (I John 4:19). This indicates that without a true
knowledge of God, loving Him can seem like a challenge. Obedience is an
authentic expression of this love.

I'm still trying to figure out how Jesus' yoke is easy. I guess that if a
person denies self daily, and heart is always gentle and lowly, then Jesus'
yoke is easy and burden light:

  Matthew 11:29-30 - Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am
  gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my
  yoke is easy, and my burden is light. (ESV)

  John 21:18-19 - Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used
  to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you are old, you
  will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where
  you do not want to go. (This he said to show by what kind of death he was
  to glorify God.) And after saying this he said to him, Follow me. (ESV)

Thanks to Jesus' endurance, His spirit empowers us to live as He lived, and
to be conformed to His image. God's strength does not guarantee that we will
not suffer as a result of following Jesus. But God gives us the power at the
time we need it to endure the suffering:

  Hebrews 12:1-3 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. (ESV)

I believe that the freedom we have in Christ is for serving Jesus, and we
have a heavenly perspective:

  Colossians 3:22-25 - Slaves, obey in everything those who are your earthly
  masters, not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity
  of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord
  and not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the
  inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. For the
  wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no
  partiality. (ESV)

54.24.3. The upward call of God in Christ Jesus

  Romans 12:11 - Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the
  Lord. (ESV)

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

  Philippians 3:14 - I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward
  call of God in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

54.25. Personal holiness

Everyone who names the name of the Lord must depart from iniquity:

  II Timothy 2:19-22 - But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal:
  The Lord knows those who are his, and, Let everyone who names the name of
  the Lord depart from iniquity. Now in a great house there are not only
  vessels of gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for honorable
  use, some for dishonorable. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what
  is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy,
  useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. So flee
  youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along
  with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart.

Following Jesus means obeying Jesus:

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life.

  John 9:5 - As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.

Jesus instructed his his disciples to be holy:

  Matthew 5:14-20 - You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill
  cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but
  on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let
  your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and
  give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Do not think that I have come
  to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to
  fulfill them. For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away,
  not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
  Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and
  teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of
  heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the
  kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that
  of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.

I believe following Jesus includes exercising personal
righteousness/holiness.

I believe that God's grace extends to all who put their faith in Jesus and
have Jesus' righteousness imputed onto them, the righteousness of faith in
Jesus Christ God's Son who has paid through his blood the price for our sin.

I affirm more of a Methodist theology regarding imparted righteousness. We
cooperate with God rather than resist sanctification.

  In Methodist theology, imparted righteousness, is what God does in Christ
  by the power of the Holy Spirit after justification, working in the
  Christian to enable and empower the process of sanctification (and, in
  Wesleyan thought, Christian perfection). John Wesley believed that imparted
  righteousness worked in tandem with imputed righteousness.

Imputed righteousness is important, but we need also personal holiness:

  James 1:20-22 - for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness
  that God requires. Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness
  and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your
  souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving
  yourselves. (ESV)

  II Timothy 2:22 - So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness,
  faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure
  heart. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Holiness Demanded - Charles Spurgeon Sermon

We must live in holiness. This is practical holiness, the opposite of
impurity.

  Hebrews 12:14 - Pursue peace with all men, and the sanctification without
  which no one will see the Lord.

In his "Introduction to Romans," Luther stated that saving faith is,

  "a living, creative, active and powerful thing, this faith. Faith cannot
  help doing good works constantly. It doesn't stop to ask if good works
  ought to be done, but before anyone asks, it already has done them and
  continues to do them without ceasing. Anyone who does not do good works in
  this manner is an unbeliever… Thus, it is just as impossible to separate
  faith and works as it is to separate heat and light from fire!"

AMEN!!

The Lutheran Churches label antinomianism as a heresy.

• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antinomianism

  I Corinthians 9:21 - To those outside the law I became as one outside the
  law (not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ) that I
  might win those outside the law.

We're still under the law of Christ, which means we must forgive and love one
another, in the same way that Jesus has loved us.

  Romans 6:14 - For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. (ESV)

"You Are Not Under Law, but Under Grace" | United Church of God

AMEN!!

I believe one must know that God's law is right:

  Romans 7:9-16 - I was once alive apart from the law, but when the
  commandment came, sin came alive and I died. The very commandment that
  promised life proved to be death to me. For sin, seizing an opportunity
  through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me. So the law
  is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. Did that which
  is good, then, bring death to me? By no means! It was sin, producing death
  in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin, and
  through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. For we know
  that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold under sin. I do not
  understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do the very
  thing I hate. Now if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law, that it
  is good. (ESV)

When presented with God's law, we should recognise that the law is right and
recognise our transgression, and continue towards sanctification, putting off
the old, sinful self.

We are released from the law, and now we serve in the new life of the Spirit:

  Romans 7:6-7 - But now we are released from the law, having died to that
  which held us captive, so that we serve not under the old written code but
  in the new life of the Spirit. What then shall we say? That the law is sin?
  By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known
  sin. I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said,
  You shall not covet. (ESV)

We believe in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ:

  Galatians 2:16 - yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the
  law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ
  Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the
  law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. (ESV)

So we're not trying to come under the 613 commandments of the Mosaic law, but
the precepts such as "do not covet", and "do not commit idolatry", easily
seen within the 10 commandments still describe how we should behave.

But we also don't teach people that the 613 commandments of the Mosaic law
are annulled. They're not annulled. We're just not under them, because we're
under the law of Christ instead:

  Matthew 5:17-18 - Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the
  Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. For truly, I
  say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will
  pass from the Law until all is accomplished. (ESV)

Heaven and earth have not passed away yet and neither has the Law:

  Luke 16:17 - But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for
  one dot of the Law to become void. (ESV)

Being led by the spirit involves following Christ's law:

  Galatians 5:13-16 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not
  use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve
  one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch
  out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the
  Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. (ESV)

If we are led by the spirit (if we're serving Jesus Christ, seeking
justification through faith in Jesus Christ) then we are not under the Mosaic
law:

  Galatians 5:18-21 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  law. Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity,
  sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger,
  rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things
  like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such
  things will not inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

So we should still forsake sin and endeavour to stop willfully doing such
sinful things in thought and deed, as it is described:

  I Timothy 1:9 - understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the
  just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for
  the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for
  murderers, (ESV)

  I Peter 4:1 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves
  with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has
  ceased from sin, (ESV)

We're under grace, and we're supposed to not be enslaved to sin, neither are
we supposed to be enslaved under the Mosaic law. The Mosaic law isn't a curse
to us.

Things like pornography probably attracts evil spirits which hinders finding
a relationship, and obviously, we still want to obey God's precepts for our
own good:

• youtube.com: Prayers Against Evil Attacks During Sleep - Powerful Prayers
Against Bad Dreams and Nightmares @time: 8 min 40 sec

Of course we still need to be sanctified and forsake sin and follow Jesus
instead.

  Hebrews 12:14,15 - Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness
  without which no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one fails to
  obtain the grace of God; that no root of bitterness springs up and causes
  trouble, and by it many become defiled; (ESV)

But sin is rather described in such a way:

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

We must instead be led by the Spirit:

  Galatians 5:22-25 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
  patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control;
  against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus
  have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the
  Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 3:13 - so that He may establish your hearts without blame
  in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with
  all His saints.

I consider practicing homosexuality to be erroneous and sinful, and God's
original design to be correct.

  Matthew 19:4-12 - He answered, Have you not read that he who created them
  from the beginning made them male and female, and said, Therefore a man
  shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they
  shall become one flesh? So they are no longer two but one flesh. What
  therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. They said to him,
  Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send
  her away? He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart Moses allowed
  you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. And I say
  to you: whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and
  marries another, commits adultery. The disciples said to him, If such is
  the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. But he said to
  them, Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is
  given. For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are
  eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have
  made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let the one
  who is able to receive this receive it.

  Romans 1:26-27 - For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions.
  For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to
  nature; and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were
  consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with
  men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. (ESV)

And no-one should endorse sinful things. Homosexuality is erroneous. If they
do, however, endorse it then I think that inhibits them from approaching God.

54.26. Belief comes before or at the time of receiving the Holy Spirit (receiving
the Holy Spirit comes at the time of or after believing)

I believe that the Holy Spirit goes to those who obey God. I believe belief
in Jesus comes first.

  Acts 2:38 - And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized every one of you
  in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will
  receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. (ESV)

And that if a person begins to repent and actually seek God then the Holy
Spirit will come to you at some point:

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

If you keep Jesus' commandments then the Spirit of Truth will come to you,
and help you, and be in you. If we obey Jesus, the Holy Spirit helps us, even
before He's inside us:

  John 14:15-17 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. (ESV)

Belief in Jesus comes first but receiving the Holy Spirit and baptism may
happen in any order after that.

I think this is generally the order of things.

youtube.com: The Person and Work of the Holy Spirit | Billy Graham

54.27. God is sovereign to reveal Himself, sovereign to save and sovereign to
destroy

  Romans 10:20 - Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those
  who did not seek me; I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 10:28 - And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the
  soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell.

54.28. Just saying a creed doesn't guarantee that a person is saved (I think)

Read
gracechurch.org: Lordship Salvation | Grace Community Church

God chooses who is saved, and how they are saved.

  II Corinthians 10:18 - For it is not the one who commends himself who is
  approved, but the one whom the Lord commends. (ESV)

God justifies.

  I Timothy 6:11-16 - But as for you, O man of God, flee these things. Pursue
  righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness. Fight the
  good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were
  called and about which you made the good confession in the presence of many
  witnesses. I charge you in the presence of God, who gives life to all
  things, and of Christ Jesus, who in his testimony before Pontius Pilate
  made the good confession, to keep the commandment unstained and free from
  reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, which he will
  display at the proper time—he who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the
  King of kings and Lord of lords, who alone has immortality, who dwells in
  unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or can see. To him be honor
  and eternal dominion. Amen.

Confessing and holding to a creed is working faith though:

Song
youtube.com: Petra - Beyond Belief @time: 8 min 49 sec

  Hebrews 4:14 - Since then we have a great high priest who has passed
  through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our
  confession.

  Hebrews 3:1 - Therefore, holy brothers, you who share in a heavenly
  calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession,

  Hebrews 10:23 - Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without
  wavering, for he who promised is faithful.

  II Corinthians 9:13 - By their approval of this service, they will glorify
  God because of your submission flowing from your confession of the gospel
  of Christ, and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all
  others,

Jesus sees here that though they have little power, they kept His word and
did not deny His name.

God justifies.

  Revelation of John 3:8 - I know your works. Behold, I have set before you
  an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little
  power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name. Behold, I
  will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and
  are not, but lie-behold, I will make them come and bow down before your
  feet and they will learn that I have loved you. Because you have kept my
  word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that
  is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth.

54.29. It's the obedient who are justified, not the hearers

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

God keeps us from stumbling along the way:

  Jude 1:24-25 - Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to
  present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, to
  the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty,
  dominion, and authority, before all time and now and forever. Amen.

  I Peter 2:25 - For you were straying like sheep, but have now returned to
  the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.

Fulfilling the requirement of the law is required of us by God. God judges
the secrets of men by Christ Jesus.

  Romans 2:13-16 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous
  before God, but the doers (4163. poiétés) of the law who will be justified.
  For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law
  requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the
  law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while
  their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse
  or even excuse them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges
  the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Delirious? - {Investigate} Live From Farewell Show In London -
2010

54.29.1. These people who were unable to enter the kingdom of heaven performed
dead works, and never obeyed Jesus

  Matthew 7:21-27 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in
  your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in
  your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew you; depart from
  me, you workers of lawlessness. Everyone then who hears these words of mine
  and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And
  the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that
  house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And
  everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a
  foolish man who built his house on the sand.And the rain fell, and the
  floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell,
  and great was the fall of it. (ESV)

To get to know Jesus, follow His commandments - be obedient to Jesus.

A relationship with Jesus necessitates being correctable by Jesus. If we hear
Jesus' words and believe Him, and are corrected by Him and sanctified by Him
and follow Him and obey Him, then that is great!

54.30. Outside of the Holy Spirit, noone can say Jesus is Lord

  1 Corinthians 12:3 - Therefore I want you to understand that no one
  speaking in the Spirit of God ever says Jesus is accursed! and no one can
  say Jesus is Lord except in the Holy Spirit. (ESV)

54.31. Works accompany the true believers

  Mark 16:16-17 - Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever
  does not believe will be condemned. And these signs will accompany those
  who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new
  tongues; (ESV)

54.32. Those that reject the gospel are not the same as those who haven't heard
the gospel

  Mark 6:11 - And if any place will not receive you and they will not listen
  to you, when you leave, shake off the dust that is on your feet as a
  testimony against them.

54.32.1. The following applies to believing Jesus, not to believing that a
disciple of Jesus is Jesus

  John 8:24 - I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you
  believe that I am he you will die in your sins. (ESV)

A disciple of Jesus isn't Jesus, but a disciple.

 1. There's more chances to accept Jesus after hearing the gospel and
initially rejecting or being unsure

  John 4:36-38 - Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and
  gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice
  together. For here the saying holds true, One sows and another reaps. I
  sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored,
  and you have entered into their labor.

  John 4:34-38 - Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who
  sent me and to accomplish his work. Do you not say, There are yet four
  months, then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes,
  and see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who
  reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that
  sower and reaper may rejoice together. For here the saying holds true,
  One sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did
  not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.

54.32.2. If someone receives the one who Jesus sends, they receive Jesus

  John 13:20 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send
  receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me.

  Matthew 10:40 - "He who receives you receives Me, and he who receives Me
  receives Him who sent Me.

  Mark 9:37 - "Whoever receives one child like this in My name receives Me;
  and whoever receives Me does not receive Me, but Him who sent Me."

54.32.3. People always have the choice to believe the gospel

  Romans 11:23 - And even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief,
  will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again.

  Matthew 21:32 - For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you
  did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed
  him. And even when you saw it, you did not afterward change your minds and
  believe him. (ESV)

  Joel 2:12-13 - Yet even now, declares the LORD, return to me with all your
  heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning; and rend your hearts
  and not your garments. Return to the LORD, your God, for he is gracious and
  merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love; and he relents
  over disaster . (ESV)

54.32.4. I lean towards this interpretation

• People who hear the gospel and ultimately reject it / reject Jesus /
choose to not put their trust in Jesus are condemned.
• There's more chances to accept Jesus after hearing the gospel and
initially rejecting or being unsure
• Rejecting Jesus in front of others is not good because it's a testimony
against them
• Acknowledging Jesus in front of others is very good

  John 3:19 - This is the judgment, that the Light has come into the world,
  and men loved the darkness rather than the Light, for their deeds were
  evil. (ESV)

  Luke 19:10 - For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost.

54.32.5. Rejecting Jesus in front of others is not good

  Luke 9:26 - For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the
  Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his glory and the glory of the
  Father and of the holy angels.

  I John 2:23 - No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses
  the Son has the Father also.

  I John 4:15 - Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in
  him, and he in God.

  Matthew 10:32 - So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will
  acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven,

  Matthew 10:33 - but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before
  my Father who is in heaven.

  Luke 12:8 - And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the
  Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God,

54.32.6. It's really important to not reject Jesus through

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life.

  John 8:21-24 - So he said to them again, I am going away, and you will seek
  me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. So the
  Jews said, Will he kill himself, since he says, Where I am going, you
  cannot come? He said to them, You are from below; I am from above. You are
  of this world; I am not of this world. I told you that you would die in
  your sins, for unless you believe that I am he you will die in your sins.

  I Peter 3:18-21 - For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for
  the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the
  flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the
  spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience
  waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a
  few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism,
  which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the
  body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the
  resurrection of Jesus Christ,

If this verse suggests that Jesus went to the spirits in prison who had in
the days of Noah disobeyed, then we should definitely obey the gospel while
we're alive today.

54.33. I believe that repentance is important in faith and faithfulness to God

  Acts 2:38 - And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized every one of you
  in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will
  receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. (ESV)

  Joel 2:12-13 - Yet even now, declares the LORD, return to me with all your
  heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning; and rend your hearts
  and not your garments. Return to the LORD, your God, for he is gracious and
  merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love; and he relents
  over disaster. (ESV)

And repentance has the fruit of in your heart truly deciding to tell the
truth, not commit adultery, etc. - being accountable to God, knowing that He
sees.

  Matthew 3:8 - Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. (ESV)

This is following the law by faith, I think; Truly loving God and one's
neighbour.

There are a lot of 'do nots' in the law but the most important thing is the 2
'do' commandments. The 'do nots' are to stop people from doing bad things,
but the 2 Greatest commandments command us to love God and our neighbour.

  Matthew 22:37-40 - And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God
  with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is
  the great and first commandment. And a second is like it: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the Law and
  the Prophets.

  Colossians 3:4-9 - When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will
  appear with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you:
  sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which
  is idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. In these you
  too once walked, when you were living in them. But now you must put them
  all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth.
  Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with
  its practices

Lots of people say these days that trying to follow the law is
self-righteousness and I don't really agree with that because to follow the
law in faith is OK. But to be 'under' the law is put oneself under a curse.

54.34. Celebrating/endorsing sin / error is not right

If a newly born-again Christian is spending all their time with sinners
though and endorsing continually instead of being discipled, then they can
have their mind conformed to the sinners instead of being strengthened in the
truth. This is why I think it's not especially great to, immediately after
getting born-again, be overly exposed to unbelievers and sinners.

Jesus ate with sinners but Jesus was the special guest. Think of Nicodemus
inviting Jesus over.

54.35. Faith has substance to it, and an amount to it, usually drawn out over
time

  Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence
  of things not seen. (KJV)

  Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen. (ESV)

For me, I was acting in faith ever since I was born-again, resulting in a
huge chain of events and confirmations!

54.36. Faith believes God and hopes in invisible things, and is convicted of them

But at the end of the day, justification by faith in Jesus justifies the
ungodly sinner - but it is faith that God justifies and not faithlessness.
It's the type of belief that recognises one's sin, and results in love for
Jesus, and it's obedient and submissive to God - it's repentant.

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

Where we are unfaithful, though, God is faithful. God wants us to choose Him.
He wants us to repent.

54.37. Jesus' words never pass away. The law could only pass away after heaven
and earth passes away

  Psalms 119:160 - The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your
  righteous rules endures forever. (ESV)

  Matthew 11:25 - At that time Jesus declared, I thank you, Father, Lord of
  heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and
  understanding and revealed them to little children;

  Matthew 24:35 - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass
  away.

  Mark 13:31 - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass
  away.

  Luke 10:21 - In that same hour he rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, I
  thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these
  things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little
  children; yes, Father, for such was your gracious will.

  Luke 16:17 - But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for
  one dot of the Law to become void.

We must abide in the teachings of Jesus, believing what Jesus has said,
believing Jesus:

  John 5:37-38 - And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about
  me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you
  do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he
  has sent. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:14-20 - You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill
  cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but
  on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let
  your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and
  give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Do not think that I have come
  to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to
  fulfill them. For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away,
  not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
  Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and
  teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of
  heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the
  kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that
  of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
  (ESV)

  Luke 21:33 - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass
  away.

The passing away of the heavens and earth looks like the destruction of the
present heavens and earth, including the planets, galaxies, etc. and the
works done on earth will be exposed. It's an extreme event:

  II Peter 3:10 - But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then
  the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be
  burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it
  will be exposed. (ESV)

The Works of Philo Judaeus, Philo of Alexandria (20BC - 50AD), On the Life of
Moses II
But the enactments of this lawgiver are firm, not shaken by commotions, not
liable to alteration, but stamped as it were with the seal of nature herself,
and they remain firm and lasting from the day on which they were first
promulgated to the present one, and there may well be a hope that they will
remain to all future time, as being immortal, as long as the sun and the
moon, and the whole heaven and the whole world shall endure.

54.38. Structure of the Kingdom

When applying the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness are the weightier
matters of the law. However, the remainder of the law is not supposed to be
neglected either:

  Matthew 23:23-25 - Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of
  the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done,
  without neglecting the others. You blind guides, straining out a gnat and
  swallowing a camel! Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of
  greed and self-indulgence.

The law still exists. A thought I have : "Perhaps structure of God's kingdom
might be determined by the law and Jesus' words."

  Psalms 119:160 - The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your
  righteous rules endures forever. (ESV)

Heaven is God's throne and its foundation is righteousness and justice.

  Psalms 97:2 - Clouds and thick darkness are all around him; righteousness
  and justice are the foundation of his throne.

  Psalms 89:14 - Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne;
  steadfast love and faithfulness go before you. (ESV)

  Acts 7:49 - 'Heaven is My throne, And earth is the footstool of My feet;
  What kind of house will you build for Me?' says the Lord, 'Or what place is
  there for My repose?

The universe is upheld by the word of Jesus' power.

  Hebrews 1:3 - He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint
  of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After
  making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty
  on high, (ESV)

  Revelation of John 20:4 - Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those
  to whom the authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those
  who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God,
  and who had not worshiped the beast or its image and had not received its
  mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with
  Christ for a thousand years.

54.38.1. Great or small in the kingdom of God

 1. The one who is least in the kingdom is who is great

  Matthew 18:4 - Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest
  in the kingdom of heaven. (ESV)

  Luke 9:48 - and said to them, Whoever receives this child in my name
  receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For he
  who is least (3398. mikros) among you all is the one who is great.
  (ESV)

 2. Your servant will be greater

  Mark 9:35 - And he sat down and called the twelve. And he said to them,
  If anyone would be first, he must be last of all and servant of all.
  (ESV)

  Mark 10:43-45 - But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be
  great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among
  you must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be served
  but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. (ESV)

Quote from Martin Luther King Jr.:

  “Everybody can be great…because anybody can serve. You don't have to
  have a college degree to serve. You don't have to make your subject and
  verb agree to serve. You only need a heart full of grace. A soul
  generated by love.”

 3. The humble and obedient will be called great

There's a quiet confidence from practicing one's righteousness
(accountable to God) so long as we are seeking to honour God by our
obedience and get praise from God, not seeking worldly praise:

  I John 3:18-22 - Little children, let us not love in word or talk but
  in deed and in truth. By this we shall know that we are of the truth
  and reassure our heart before him; for whenever our heart condemns us,
  God is greater than our heart, and he knows everything. Beloved, if our
  heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God; and whatever
  we ask we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do
  what pleases him. (ESV)

The justified are not self-righteous but live with an awareness they
still need God's grace and practice their obedience in submission to God:

  Luke 18:10-14 - Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee
  and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself,
  prayed thus: God, I thank you that I am not like other men,
  extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I
  fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get. But the tax
  collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven,
  but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner! I tell
  you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other.
  For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who
  humbles himself will be exalted. (ESV)

Being under grace means knowing we always live under the mercy of God:

  Romans 6:14 - For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. (ESV)

  Titus 2:11-14 - For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation
  for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly
  passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the
  present age, waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory
  of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to
  redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for
  his own possession who are zealous for good works. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:6 - Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for
  righteousness, for they shall be satisfied.

  Jeremiah 31:34 - And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and
  each his brother, saying, Know the LORD, for they shall all know me,
  from the least of them to the greatest, declares the LORD. For I will
  forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. (ESV)

Those in the kingdom of God hold faith in Jesus and serve Jesus:

  Romans 14:17-18 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
  Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men.
  (ESV)

There are commandments from God which even Paul the Apostle regarded as
important to follow for all people who serve Jesus, such as the 10
Commandments and the commandments which came from Jesus Himself,
including the Golden Rule:

  Romans 13:9-10 - The commandments, You shall not commit adultery, You
  shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet, and any
  other commandment, are summed up in this word: You shall love your
  neighbor as yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love
  is the fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

The law is good. It's not our source of justification but we don't teach
people to disobey it, especially those who follow it by faith.

  Romans 14:10-14 - Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why
  do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment
  seat of God; for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee
  shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of
  us will give an account of himself to God. Therefore let us not pass
  judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a
  stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and am
  persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it
  is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. (ESV)

Instead we focus on following Jesus first and foremost:

  Romans 14:22-23 - The faith that you have, keep between yourself and
  God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself
  for what he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats,
  because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed
  from faith is sin. (ESV)

When it comes to following the law as a Christian, it's a matter of being
accountable to God personally over our own level of law adherence while
we follow Jesus first and foremost.

Quote by John Piper
That's who we are as Christians. When we walk according to the Spirit, we
fulfill the just requirement of the law. That is, we keep the
commandments, we love. We are doers of the law. Not sinlessly perfect
law-keepers. Nobody is nor anybody has been except Jesus, which is why we
depend on Him, but rather, radically transformed people, through faith,
in the power of the Holy Spirit, leaning on the grace of God that comes
to us through Jesus Christ.

Jesus, the original Apostles and the founding fathers of Christianity
still taught us to keep the 2 Great commandments and the 10 Commandments
which is sound doctrine:

• I Corinthians 7:19 - Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is
nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God. (KJV)

So long as we hold faith in Christ, we're no longer victims of the curse
of the law (which is to rely on keeping the full law perfectly to avoid
being cursed):

  Galatians 3:10-13 - For all who rely on works of the law are under a
  curse; for it is written, Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all
  things written in the Book of the Law, and do them. Now it is evident
  that no one is justified before God by the law, for The righteous shall
  live by faith. But the law is not of faith, rather The one who does
  them shall live by them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law
  by becoming a curse for us—for it is written, Cursed is everyone who is
  hanged on a tree— (ESV)

Those who keep God's commandments and and the righteousness of faith /
the testimony of Jesus will be called great in the kingdom:

  Matthew 5:19 - Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these
  commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in
  the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be
  called great in the kingdom of heaven. (ESV)

So long as we hold faith in Christ, we're no longer victims of the curse
of the law (which is to rely on keeping the full law perfectly to avoid
being cursed):

  Galatians 3:10-13 - For all who rely on works of the law are under a
  curse; for it is written, Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all
  things written in the Book of the Law, and do them. Now it is evident
  that no one is justified before God by the law, for The righteous shall
  live by faith. But the law is not of faith, rather The one who does
  them shall live by them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law
  by becoming a curse for us—for it is written, Cursed is everyone who is
  hanged on a tree— (ESV)

It is humility to keep God's commandments by faith (and not works),
accountable to God who sees in secret.

Quote by John Piper
"Pride is insubordinate. [It says,] You don't have a right to tell me
what to do. That's what happened in the Garden of Eden right at the
beginning of our sinful plight. And that's what all of us do apart from
God's grace."

There is a self-righteous way of trying to keep the law, and there is a
humble way. The law is not annulled but our justification comes from
faith in Jesus.

• The self-righteous way
• Pursues the law as if by works
• Observes the law in detail but doesn't follow even the basics
from the heart and in truth, or in faith.
• Doesn't maintain being honest and faithful to God.
• Doesn't maintain loving one's neighbour in truth and reality.
• Lacks mercy.
• Often criticizes others but with hypocrisy, not seeing they
break the law while they accuse.
• Often makes the mistake of condemning the innocent.
• Often makes the mistake of being without mercy, or love.
• The humble way, with faith
• Is accountable to God - it's not lying to God.
• No deceit.
• It's acknowledging that God is right, and His law is right.
• It's loving God, and loving one's neighbour.
• It's compatible with being led by the Spirit, not opposed

  Matthew 7:3-5 - Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye,
  but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say
  to your brother, Let me take the speck out of your eye, when there is
  the log in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your
  own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your
  brother's eye. (ESV)

  Galatians 5:18-21 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under
  the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality,
  impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits
  of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies,
  and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those
  who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

We must be doing the will of God to not be under the law:

  Psalms 143:10 - Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your
  good Spirit lead me on level ground! (ESV)

We must instead be led by the Spirit, and follow Christ Jesus:

  Galatians 5:22-25 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
  patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control;
  against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ
  Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we
  live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. (ESV)

54.38.2. God's kingdom is from Heaven to Earth

  Genesis 14:19 - And he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram by God Most
  High, Possessor of heaven and earth;

  Isaiah 66:1 - Thus says the Lord, "Heaven is My throne and the earth is My
  footstool. Where then is a house you could build for Me? And where is a
  place that I may rest???

  Jeremiah 23:24 - "Can a man hide himself in hiding places So I do not see
  him?" declares the Lord. "Do I not fill the heavens and the earth?"
  declares the Lord.??

  Acts 7:49 - 'Heaven is My throne, And earth is the footstool of My feet;
  What kind of house will you build for Me?' says the Lord, 'Or what place is
  there for My repose???

  Matthew 11:25 - At that time Jesus said, "I praise You, Father, Lord of
  heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and
  intelligent and have revealed them to infants.

  Luke 10:21 - At that very time He rejoiced greatly in the Holy Spirit, and
  said, "I praise You, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have
  hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to
  infants. Yes, Father, for this way was well-pleasing in Your sight.

  Revelation of John 14:7 - And he said with a loud voice, Fear God and give
  him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who
  made heaven and earth, the sea and the springs of water.

  Acts 17:24 - The God who made the world and all things in it, since He is
  Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands;

 1. Jesus inherits the entire Kingdom

  Hebrews 1:2 - in these last days has spoken to us in His Son, whom He
  appointed heir of all things, through whom also He made the world.

  I Corinthians 15:25 - For He must reign until He has put all His
  enemies under His feet.

  I Corinthians 15:27 - For He has put all things in subjection under His
  feet. But when He says, "All things are put in subjection," it is
  evident that He is excepted who put all things in subjection to Him.

  Ephesians 1:22 - And He put all things in subjection under His feet,
  and gave Him as head over all things to the church,

  Hebrews 2:8 - You have put all things in subjection under his feet."
  For in subjecting all things to him, He left nothing that is not
  subject to him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected to him.

  Hebrews 10:13 - waiting from that time onward until His enemies be made
  a footstool for His feet.

 2. Jesus' sheep/followers/saints inherit the Kingdom with Jesus. Jesus'
sheep follow Jesus

  Matthew 24:45-47 - Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his
  master has set over his household, to give them their food at the
  proper time? Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing
  when he comes. Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his
  possessions. (ESV)

  Luke 12:32 - Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father's good
  pleasure to give you the kingdom.

  John 10:27 - My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
  me.

  Luke 9:23 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him
  deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me.

  Luke 18:22 - When Jesus heard this, he said to him, One thing you still
  lack. Sell all that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will
  have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am,
  there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will
  honor him.

  John 21:22 - Jesus said to him, If it is my will that he remain until I
  come, what is that to you? You follow me!

  1 Corinthians 6:9-20 - Do you not know that the unrighteous will not
  inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually
  immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice
  homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor
  revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. And such were
  some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were
  justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our
  God. All things are lawful for me, but not all things are helpful. All
  things are lawful for me, but I will not be enslaved by anything. Food
  is meant for the stomach and the stomach for food-and God will destroy
  both one and the other. The body is not meant for sexual immorality,
  but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. And God raised the Lord
  and will also raise us up by his power. Do you not know that your
  bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ
  and make them members of a prostitute? Never! Or do you not know that
  he who is joined to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For, as it
  is written, The two will become one flesh. But he who is joined to the
  Lord becomes one spirit with him. Flee from sexual immorality. Every
  other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually
  immoral person sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your
  body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God?
  You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God
  in your body. (ESV)

  Zechariah 8:23 - Thus says the Lord of hosts: In those days ten men
  from the nations of every tongue shall take hold of the robe of a Jew,
  saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.

  Revelation of John 2:26 - The one who conquers and who keeps my works
  until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations,

 3. Followers of Jesus become fishers of men

  Mark 1:17 - And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you
  become fishers of men.

 4. One must be born-again to enter in and inherit the Kingdom of God

  John 3:3 - Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one
  is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.

  John 3:5 - Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.

  I Corinthians 15:50d - I tell you this, brothers: flesh and blood
  cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the
  imperishable.

youtube.com: The Chosen scene: John 3:16 @time: 2 min 8 sec

54.39. There is no sexual immorality in Heaven, no violence, no sinners.

Heaven is not Earth. It's a place without sinning.

  Psalms 11:5 - The LORD tests the righteous, but his soul hates the wicked
  and the one who loves violence. (ESV)

But the Kingdom of God exists from Heaven to Earth.

  II Peter 3:13-14 - But according to his promise we are waiting for new
  heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Therefore, beloved,
  since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without
  spot or blemish, and at peace.

  Revelation 21:22-27 - And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is
  the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or
  moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is
  the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth
  will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day-and
  there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and the
  honor of the nations. But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone
  who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the
  Lamb's book of life. (ESV)

  Isaiah 11:6 - The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie
  down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf
  together; and a little child shall lead them. (ESV)

  Matthew 22:30 - For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in
  marriage, but are like angels in heaven.

54.40. Adhering to the law like a Pharisee - pursuing the law by works

But adhering to the law like a Pharisee is like strapping yourself to a razor
blade, but that doesn't mean the law is wrong.

  Romans 3:20 - For by works of the law no human being will be justified in
  his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin.

The law doesn't save:

  Galatians 3:21-24 - Is the law then contrary to the promises of God?
  Certainly not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then
  righteousness would indeed be by the law. But the Scripture imprisoned
  everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be
  given to those who believe. Now before faith came, we were held captive
  under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So
  then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be
  justified by faith. (ESV)

The law doesn't save:

  Hebrews 7:19 - (for the law made nothing perfect); but on the other hand, a
  better hope is introduced, through which we draw near to God. (ESV)

54.40.1. Instead of adhering to the law like a Pharisee we should become
obedient to Jesus

That means loving others the way He loved us, and it involves accepting that
He loved us first (through the atoning sacrifice):

  Matthew 5:20 - For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of
  the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
  (ESV)

We believe God and believe God has sent Jesus to be the propitiation for our
sins, and love others freely with Christ's love, relieving their burdens and
forgiving their trespasses against us, as we have freely received love and
forgiveness from God. This is actually following the Great Commandments to
love God and our neighbour properly.

54.41. Follow the law mercifully and without self-righteousness, accountable to
God, being a servant to others

So as to not become a hypocrite or condemn the innocent. Accountable to God -
a relationship with God. Without self-righteousness.

  Acts 23:3 - Then Paul said to him, God is going to strike you, you
  whitewashed wall! Are you sitting to judge me according to the law, and yet
  contrary to the law you order me to be struck?

  Matthew 12:3-8 - He said to them, Have you not read what David did when he
  was hungry, and those who were with him: how he entered the house of God
  and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat
  nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests? Or have you not
  read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the
  Sabbath and are guiltless? I tell you, something greater than the temple is
  here. And if you had known what this means, I desire mercy, and not
  sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless. For the Son of Man
  is lord of the Sabbath.

The greatest among you will be your servant. Keeping the commandments by
faith results in a person a who is a servant, serving others.

  Luke 22:26 - But it is not this way with you, but the one who is the
  greatest among you must become like the youngest, and the leader like the
  servant.

  Matthew 5:19 - Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these
  commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the
  kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called
  great in the kingdom of heaven.

Not the best example, but, for example, when someone says you owe them money,
and you can see they are blind, it's paying them because you're the one
submitting to God. It's humbling yourself even to others and following God's
commandments in truth and reality, with a real faith relationship with God.

It's serving others as Jesus has served us:

  Romans 14:18 - Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved
  by men. (ESV)

It's keeping accountable to God and maintaining faithfulness to God, not
keeping others accountable to you:

  Romans 14:22 - The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God.
  Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what
  he approves. (ESV)

This isn't self-righteousness, but is a self-sacrificial obedience to
continue working as a bond-servant of Christ, being the light of the world.

  Philippians 2:14-16 - Do all things without grumbling or questioning, that
  you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the
  midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights
  in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of
  Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain.

54.42. Being in the Kingdom of Jesus Christ on earth is being the light of the
world

Seek the Kingdom of God:

  II Peter 1:5-11 - For this very reason, make every effort to supplement
  your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with
  self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with
  godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection
  with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep
  you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus
  Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is
  blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins.
  Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and
  election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall. For
  in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the
  eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. (ESV)

Become born of the Spirit:

  John 3:3-5 - Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born again he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can
  a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's
  womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

In Jesus Christ we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins, and are
transferred into the Kingdom of Jesus Christ:

  Colossians 1:13-14 - He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and
  transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have
  redemption, the forgiveness of sins. (ESV)

It's the Kingdom of Christ and God:

  Ephesians 5:5 - For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually
  immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has no
  inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. (ESV)

As we walk in the light, as He is in the light, that is in the Truth, walking
in, believing, professing and obeying Jesus Christ in Truth, the blood of
Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin:

  I John 1:6-7 - If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in
  darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the
  light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the
  blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. (ESV)

Walking in the light is walking righteously, in love and holiness and truth:

  Ephesians 5:1-17 - Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And
  walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant
  offering and sacrifice to God. But sexual immorality and all impurity or
  covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints.
  Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking, which are out
  of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving. For you may be sure of
  this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous
  (that is, an idolater), has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and
  God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things
  the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not
  associate with them; for at one time you were darkness, but now you are
  light in the Lord. Walk as children of light (for the fruit of light is
  found in all that is good and right and true), and try to discern what is
  pleasing to the Lord. Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but
  instead expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of the things that
  they do in secret. But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes
  visible, for anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says,
  Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.
  Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise, making the
  best use of the time, because the days are evil. Therefore do not be
  foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. (ESV)

We are the light of the world. Yes, we must do good:

  Matthew 5:14-20 - You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill
  cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but
  on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let
  your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and
  give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Do not think that I have come
  to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to
  fulfill them. For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away,
  not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
  Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and
  teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of
  heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the
  kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that
  of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.

We must do good, and behave like the children of God, or we will not enter
the Kingdom:

  I John 3:10 - By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who
  are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is
  not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. (ESV)

  I John 3:7 - Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. (ESV)

  I John 2:29 - If you know that he is righteous, you may be sure that
  everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him. (ESV)

When we are transferred into the Kingdom of Jesus Christ and God, the world
hates us, but then we need to shine our light in the darkness, resisting the
falsehood:

  John 15:19 - If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own;
  but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world,
  therefore the world hates you. (ESV)

54.43. All the law is still used

We're not under / condemned by the Mosaic law but we still don't encourage
the breaking of the Mosaic law.

The law is good and it still exists, and God still uses the law. All of it.
We are supposed to stand for truth and live righteously as the light of the
world.

If a person rejects this because they don't like law then they are lying to
themself because Jesus teaches that not a jot will pass away:

  John 12:48 - The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a
  judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.

Heaven and earth is still around, so therefore the law still exists, but
those who are doing the will of God and being led by God's spirit, following
Jesus are not under it nor condemned by it - that is a conditional promise:

  Luke 16:17 - But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for
  one dot of the Law to become void.

We all fall short of the glory of God and require the God's righteousness
imputed to us through faith in Jesus, but having the righteousness of God
through faith in Jesus is not license to sin.

Jesus Christ is the end of the law to all who believe, but grace isn't an
excuse to sin.

God's commandments (especially the 10 Commandments; loving God and your
neighbour) are still binding on us - written on our heart when we get
born-again.

Right after I got born-again of the Spirit I wrote about the 10 commandments
being written on my heart, and I believe it was the Holy Spirit inspiring me
and also letting me loose to write (and also later be corrected).

I have a more detailed explanation here:

• web.archive.org mullikine.github.io: Astral Projection Part 1 - Death
with Jesus // Bodacious Blog

  Galatians 6:14-17 - But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of
  our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I
  to the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. And as for all who walk by this rule,
  peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God. From now on let
  no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus. (ESV)

Despite some people believing the new birth is not like a pregnancy, it was
indeed like a pregnancy from my experience.

  John 3:6 - That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born
  of the Spirit is spirit. (ESV)

I really believe that John Piper's explanation should be listened to / read:

• youtube.com: How to Seek the Holy Spirit

AMEN to this particular quote too:

youtube.com: How to Seek the Holy Spirit @time: 48 min 13 sec
"If anyone keeps Jesus' word, holds fast, treasures it, in obedience, that
person will not be quenching the Spirit, that person will not be grieving the
Spirit, but will know the fullness and sweetness of fellowship with the
Father and the Son." - AMEN to that, John Piper

Now I could go into detail about why I repented "after" being born of the
Spirit, and I have explained things a bit later in this document. But I
certainly hold fast to what is good, and allow the Holy Spirit to clean me,
as I continue to believe and obey the Holy Spirit.

I can't speak to what people's experience might be.

  John 3:8 - The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you
  do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone
  who is born of the Spirit. (ESV)

I received a blue light-body made of blue Spirit light/fire:

  … I could feel having a body and see it but the sight I had was unlike
  regular sight.

  When I looked at myself I could see what looked many blue power lines
  running up my body, glowing and lighting up in blue as waves of some kind
  of energy moved up and down, pulsating slowly, causing them to glow.

  I knew exactly where each part of my physical body was, just as if a person
  does when they are awake was but when I moved, I seem to have been
  detaching with another one, which was blue. I thought to myself, “This is
  my consciousness just trying to retain a sense of self as I am wilfully
  moving but my body is still asleep.” Perhaps that’s not far from reality.

  I could reach in within my own body with my astral hands and ‘see’ where my
  regular arms lay, but I no vision whatsoever of skin nor flesh, but in a
  way I could faintly see blackish organs. As I placed my hands below my
  bones it sent electrical impulses through my body. I could hear electrical
  vibrations (an electrical sound, like a brrr or a zrrrr) get louder as
  moved them through my torso and below my rib cage. I could move into my
  body and feel my organs, and a sore spot under and below my right lung.

  I was actually awake and tried to pray aloud but that is when I knew I was
  in sleep paralysis as I could not make any sounds, nor open my eyes. I sat
  up a bit where I lay, but just my astral body. And I could see myself. I
  think I could do this because my body was still very asleep. I prayed to
  Jesus for forgiveness and for his protection because I was scared and did
  not know what was going on. This was a very unusual experience. I was
  experiencing sleep paralysis but when I tried to move I actually could
  move, but only with my astral body. I came out of my body only by lying up
  a bit and feeling inside my upper torso but with my astral hands.

  There was a sore spot inside in my physical body which I was aware of and
  when I touched it with my astral hand it felt tender.

  I decided I would just lie there, and experience being able to voluntarily
  (a bit like sonar) send waves of chilling vibrations over my body just by
  thinking “I want to scan my body”.

  I woke up intentionally and it was as if I were already awake but opening
  my eyes and getting out of bed again, though I could’ve easily slipped back
  into sleep if I wanted. …

To this day, I still have my blue light-body. Though I don't see it with my
regular eyes I can still feel it humming!

  Galatians 6:14-17 - But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of
  our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I
  to the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. And as for all who walk by this rule,
  peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God. From now on let
  no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Be Who You Are: Living Out Identity in Christ, Part 1

54.43.1. Even the smallest of laws still come into effect in certain
circumstances

  Leviticus 19:27 - You shall not round off the hair on your temples or mar
  the edges of your beard. (ESV)

For example, if Jesus sends you as an ambassador to some pagans and they
asked you to shave your head in this specific way, or eat food sacrificed to
idols.

  James 4:17 - So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for
  him it is sin. (ESV)

  Romans 14:23 - But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the
  eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.
  (ESV)

Therefore, a person should do what is out of love and faith for the LORD,
based on their knowledge of the law, their faithfulness to God and their
conviction.

54.43.2. We do not seek to change God's law

Fellow heirs with Christ are still in subjection to Christ. Fellow heirs with
Christ have Christ as their King and Lord and Saviour and God and Jehovah as
their God.

Christ is reigning until all things are subjected to Him. We must come under
the Lordship of Christ Jesus. I consider any so-called god which is in
rebellion to Christ to be a demon:

  I Corinthians 15:25-28 - For he must reign until he has put all his enemies
  under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For God has put
  all things in subjection under his feet. But when it says, all things are
  put in subjection, it is plain that he is excepted who put all things in
  subjection under him. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son
  himself will also be subjected to him who put all things in subjection
  under him, that God may be all in all. (ESV)

The prophet Daniel had a vision of kings making war against God, and the
saints siding with God:

  Daniel 7:1-3 - In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, Daniel saw
  a dream and visions of his head as he lay in his bed. Then he wrote down
  the dream and told the sum of the matter. Daniel declared, I saw in my
  vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the
  great sea. And four great beasts came up out of the sea, different from one
  another. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:4-7 - The first was like a lion and had eagles' wings. Then as I
  looked its wings were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the ground and
  made to stand on two feet like a man, and the mind of a man was given to
  it. And behold, another beast, a second one, like a bear. It was raised up
  on one side. It had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth; and it was
  told, Arise, devour much flesh. After this I looked, and behold, another,
  like a leopard, with four wings of a bird on its back. And the beast had
  four heads, and dominion was given to it. After this I saw in the night
  visions, and behold, a fourth beast, terrifying and dreadful and
  exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth; it devoured and broke in
  pieces and stamped what was left with its feet. It was different from all
  the beasts that were before it, and it had ten horns. (ESV)

These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth:

  Daniel 7:1-8 - In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, Daniel saw
  a dream and visions of his head as he lay in his bed. Then he wrote down
  the dream and told the sum of the matter. Daniel declared, I saw in my
  vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the
  great sea. And four great beasts came up out of the sea, different from one
  another. The first was like a lion and had eagles' wings. Then as I looked
  its wings were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the ground and made
  to stand on two feet like a man, and the mind of a man was given to it. And
  behold, another beast, a second one, like a bear. It was raised up on one
  side. It had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth; and it was told,
  Arise, devour much flesh. After this I looked, and behold, another, like a
  leopard, with four wings of a bird on its back. And the beast had four
  heads, and dominion was given to it. After this I saw in the night visions,
  and behold, a fourth beast, terrifying and dreadful and exceedingly strong.
  It had great iron teeth; it devoured and broke in pieces and stamped what
  was left with its feet. It was different from all the beasts that were
  before it, and it had ten horns. I considered the horns, and behold, there
  came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the
  first horns were plucked up by the roots. And behold, in this horn were
  eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking great things. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:9-12 - As I looked, thrones were placed, and the Ancient of days
  took his seat; his clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head
  like pure wool; his throne was fiery flames; its wheels were burning fire.
  A stream of fire issued and came out from before him; a thousand thousands
  served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him; the court
  sat in judgment, and the books were opened. I looked then because of the
  sound of the great words that the horn was speaking. And as I looked, the
  beast was killed, and its body destroyed and given over to be burned with
  fire. As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but
  their lives were prolonged for a season and a time. (ESV)

The saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom
forever, forever and ever:

  Daniel 7:13-14 - I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of
  heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the Ancient of Days
  and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a
  kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him; his
  dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his
  kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:15-18 - As for me, Daniel, my spirit within me was anxious, and
  the visions of my head alarmed me. I approached one of those who stood
  there and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me and made
  known to me the interpretation of the things. These four great beasts are
  four kings who shall arise out of the earth. But the saints of the Most
  High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, forever and
  ever. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:19-24 - Then I desired to know the truth about the fourth beast,
  which was different from all the rest, exceedingly terrifying, with its
  teeth of iron and claws of bronze, and which devoured and broke in pieces
  and stamped what was left with its feet, and about the ten horns that were
  on its head, and the other horn that came up and before which three of them
  fell, the horn that had eyes and a mouth that spoke great things, and that
  seemed greater than its companions. As I looked, this horn made war with
  the saints and prevailed over them, until the Ancient of Days came, and
  judgment was given for the saints of the Most High, and the time came when
  the saints possessed the kingdom. Thus he said: As for the fourth beast,
  there shall be a fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be different from all
  the kingdoms, and it shall devour the whole earth, and trample it down, and
  break it to pieces. As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings
  shall arise, and another shall arise after them; he shall be different from
  the former ones, and shall put down three kings. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:25-26 - He shall speak words against the Most High, and shall wear
  out the saints of the Most High, and shall think to change the times and
  the law; and they shall be given into his hand for a time, times, and half
  a time. But the court shall sit in judgment, and his dominion shall be
  taken away, to be consumed and destroyed to the end. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:27-28 - And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the
  kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints
  of the Most High; their kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom, and all
  dominions shall serve and obey them. Here is the end of the matter. As for
  me, Daniel, my thoughts greatly alarmed me, and my color changed, but I
  kept the matter in my heart. (ESV)

54.44. My experience of being born-again, and reasoning surrounding justification

I affirm justification through faith alone by the imputed righteousness of
having trusting faith in Jesus (in the heart, without any work) for the
finished work of the cross but I believe that this belief has to be
qualified, and that God does the qualifying when He looks at the heart. Amen.

I think that a willingness to turn to obey Jesus in the heart is
characteristic of a repentant heart, and I think a willingness to turn away
from evil and follow Jesus is an important step towards being born-again.

It's also important to have a response of love for Jesus, and without Jesus'
finished work on the cross, we couldn't receive Jesus' Holy Spirit to live
inside us.

The Bible teaches that the Holy Spirit goes to those who obey Jesus.

The Bible also teaches that the Holy Spirit goes those who put their faith on
Jesus.

54.44.1. John Piper's view, I affirm, but it also sounds optimal

I believe John Piper's view here is optimal, that during the turbulent
process of being born-again of the spirit, we should rely entirely on the
righteousness of Christ, and not be led astray by relying on our own works
for justification.

  John Piper - We should rely entirely on the righteousness of Christ imputed
  to us by faith alone as the ground of God being 100% for us after which
  necessary sanctification comes.

54.44.2. But my experience was like this and this is why I cannot deny the
importance of obedience and abiding in the teaching of Christ by obedient,
trusting, hoping, faith, even before being born of the Spirit

Before I was born-again of the Spirit, I was trying to build a 'Noah's
Ark-like' software called Pen.el, and also was endeavouring to keep the 10
commandments by faith seeking God, and then I got born-again of the Spirit.

When I was born of the Spirit (2 April 2022), God permitted me to confess
Jesus to Him, and I made a strong repentance to walking in far more obedient
faith thereafter. I didn't receive any commendation from my perspective when
I was born-again of the Spirit.

  Genesis 22:16-17 - and said, By myself I have sworn, declares the LORD,
  because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son, I
  will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring as the
  stars of heaven and as the sand that is on the seashore. And your offspring
  shall possess the gate of his enemies, (ESV)

But then, as what happened to me after I was born-again of the Spirit (by the
grace of God through faith), is that shortly after I was quickly confronted
with a lot of paganism, and through obedience to Jesus' commandments through
that time, as I learned to walk in them, I was simultaneously getting tested
very strongly on them through other people.

I even began to get dreams of evading judgement through good works, and then
pagan dreams etc. that were distinctly not Christian, and all I'm saying is
that adhering to the truth that I am justified not by my own works but by
Christ's finished works was very important for me through that time, so that
I wasn't led astray by paganism.

I'm also sanctified as I cooperate with the Holy Spirit in the process of
sanctification - post-justification.

54.44.3. I also affirm justification by works of faith done by grace [alone],
not just 'faith alone' because I affirm Romans 4:9-12 which says its both
groups, and also Hebrews 11 confirms

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

The ones who adhere to the Law (i.e. the true circumcision) should also walk
in steps of faith that Abraham had before he was circumcised. I believe in
this type of 'merit' if you would call it merit. In reality these works of
faith type salvation is still 'grace alone'.

  Hebrews 11:2 - For by it the people of old received their commendation.
  (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:4 - By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice
  than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him
  by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still
  speaks. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:7 - By faith Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet
  unseen, in reverent fear constructed an ark for the saving of his
  household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the
  righteousness that comes by faith. (ESV)

  Genesis 6:7-9 - So the LORD said, I will blot out man whom I have created
  from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things and birds of
  the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them. But Noah found favor in
  the eyes of the LORD. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a
  righteous man, blameless in his generation. Noah walked with God. (ESV)

  Luke 19:8-9 - And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the
  half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of
  anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has
  come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham. (ESV)

Now what's interesting to me is that before 2 April 2022, I indeed considered
myself to be a Christian but in all honesty from my current angle I think I
was spiritually dead. But I had started taking steps of faith in God to seek
Him out for about a year before then. I didn't have the obvious sense of
God's presence which I do now after 2 April 2022. But in 2021 I was casually
seeking a real relationship with Jesus. In desperation I called out to God
for help and I was born-again of the Spirit. It's still grace. It's still
salvation. And it's plainly evident to me that God had been working in my
life before I was born-again of the Spirit. It seems obvious that God had
been creating in me faith. And it's also plainly evident to me that after I
was born-again the Holy Spirit would speak to me through Christians even at
my baptist church. I have no doubts it's Jesus' Holy Spirit who has been
working in me. I also believe that as Jesus had done with Saul, He may use a
person's existing situation which they were in when they are born-again and
use for His purposes, and so use their "work". But when I was born of the
Spirit, that was quite something, and from my angle all a person would seek
to do in a situation like what happened to me is focus on the Lord Jesus and
want to be obedient to Him:

  Titus 3:3-7 - For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray,
  slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and
  envy, hated by others and hating one another. But when the goodness and
  loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of
  works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the
  washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out
  on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by
  his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
  (ESV)

I believe that it's God who tests the heart and justifies who has faith in
Jesus.

I also don't think I have an exact idea of what has been good works in the
eyes of God before and after 2 April 2022. If someone wants me to try to say
that 2 April 2022 was when I was justified and started producing good works,
then I don't think I can say that actually. The truth is I actually just
don't know if or when God has justified me. I just have faith that I'm
justified by Jesus' blood, and called out to God to help me and He helped me
and now I'm just really wanting to remain faithful to Him.

54.44.4. Mid-2022 to mid-2023 was chaotic

• I was saved when I was spiritually dead as an act of pure grace - like a
plane on the verge of crashing to the ground, I was born-again at one of
the lowest (perhaps the lowest) points in my life.
• My own theology and behaviour was deeply flawed when I was born-again,
and it had to be rectified, and that was a painful process as I repented
after being born-again of the spirit.
• Without reforming my behaviour to come into obedience to Jesus'
commandments after being born-again, I would've been led into endorsing
paganism and licentiousness.
• Adhering to the truth during these events had me in constant spiritual
warfare, and it wasn't easy, so I believe that obedience is extremely
important and I think is in some way very important to saving faith.

Obeying Jesus is very important:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

• G4100 πιστεύων (pisteuōn): This is the present participle form of the
verb "πιστεύω" (G4100 pisteuō), meaning "to believe" or "to have faith."
In the participle form, it functions as a verbal adjective and can be
translated as "believing."

  I John 5:10-13 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in
  the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God
  has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God
  has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us
  eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life;
  whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these
  things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know
  that you have eternal life. (ESV)

But we must not believe in vain. We must continue trusting Jesus. We must
believe and hold fast to the gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-2 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast (2722. katechó) to the word I preached to
  you—unless you believed in vain. (ESV)

2722. katechó
Usage: (a) I hold fast, bind, arrest, (b) I take possession of, lay hold of,
(c) I hold back, detain, restrain, (d) I hold a ship, keep its head.

Of first importance is that we are believing in the correct Jesus. We must be
teachable / correctable by Jesus (accepting as true His words and his deeds):

  I Corinthians 15:3-9 - For I delivered to you as of first importance what I
  also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the
  Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in
  accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the
  twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time,
  most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he
  appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one
  untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles,
  unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
  (ESV)

  John 18:37 - Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered,
  You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose
  I have come into the world—to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of
  the truth listens to my voice. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Charity Gayle - Thank You Jesus for the Blood {Live}

54.44.5. An obedient/loving response to Jesus, I think is extremely important

I believe it's necessary that we should have a loving response to Jesus, and
an obedient response to Jesus. Is that preaching justification through my own
works or my own effort? No, I don't think so.

The obediently loving response to Jesus after being born-again of the spirit
is to pass-forward the mercy onto others (forgive others as we have been
forgiven), die to the selfish nature and learn to walk in Jesus'
commandments.

54.44.6. But I believe the grace is a free gift from God.

Jesus is so generous that He saves people who turn out to be unthankful, but
we should definitely love Jesus as a response. This story should be taken not
only to see how Good God is, but also taken as a warning against
unthankfulness:

  Luke 17:11-19 - On the way to Jerusalem he was passing along between
  Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers,
  who stood at a distance and lifted up their voices, saying, Jesus, Master,
  have mercy on us. When he saw them he said to them, Go and show yourselves
  to the priests. And as they went they were cleansed. Then one of them, when
  he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice; and
  he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a
  Samaritan. Then Jesus answered, Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine?
  Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner?
  And he said to him, Rise and go your way; your faith has made you well.
  (ESV)

54.45. Justification by faith - Jews + Gentiles, and in-between

There is only the one gospel message: the same gospel that Paul, Jesus, Peter
and John preached.

Paul preached the same gospel as Jesus before His crucifixion, and the same
gospel that Peter and John preached, but some people think Paul's gospel is
different - but that is because they have been deceived by the two-gospel
heresy:

• The Two Gospel Heresy - Anton Bosch

Jesus even told people He would be killed and raised, as John the Baptist
taught that Jesus takes away the sin of the world, and people came to believe
He is the Saviour of the world:

  Matthew 17:22-23 - As they were gathering in Galilee, Jesus said to them,
  The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men, and they
  will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day. And they were
  greatly distressed. (ESV)

  John 1:29 - The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, Behold,
  the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! (ESV)

  John 4:42 - They said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you
  said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that
  this is indeed the Savior of the world. (ESV)

It's the same gospel:

  I Corinthians 15:1-11 - Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I
  preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you
  are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you—unless you
  believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also
  received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures,
  that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with
  the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. Then he
  appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are
  still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James,
  then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared
  also to me. For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an
  apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I
  am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I
  worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God
  that is with me. Whether then it was I or they, so we preach and so you
  believed. (ESV)

We must follow Jesus Christ who died for our sins, the light of the world,
the Good Shepherd, and come into the truth, and into the Kingdom of God.
Jesus is Lord of Lords, our Lord, our Saviour, our Master, our King, our God,
the Light, the Truth:

  John 12:44-47 - And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me,
  believes not in me but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who
  sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in
  me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and does not keep
  them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world but to save
  the world. (ESV)

Jesus taught people to trust in Him and keep His teachings:

  John 11:25 - Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever
  believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, (ESV)

  John 8:51 - Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will
  never see death. (ESV)

And Jesus taught that this would produce a transformation in the person where
a person receives the Holy Spirit:

  John 7:37-38 - On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up
  and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever
  believes in me, as the Scripture has said, Out of his heart will flow
  rivers of living water. (ESV)

Even before His crucifixion, it's clear that Jesus taught the New Covenant:

  Luke 22:20 - And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, This cup
  that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. (ESV)

Even before His crucifixion, it's clear that we may have faith in Jesus to
forgive us, and change our ways:

  John 8:11 - She said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn
  you; go, and from now on sin no more. (ESV)

And according to Paul, Jesus' commands are still binding. We must help the
weak. We must remember the words of the Lord Jesus:

  Acts 20:35 - In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this
  way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he
  himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 11:24-25 - and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and
  said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In
  the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, This cup is the
  new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance
  of me. (ESV)

Jesus' words do not pass away, and the truths He spoke before being crucified
remain true:

  Matthew 24:35 - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass
  away. (ESV)

Jesus' words are the words of eternal life:

  John 6:68 - Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have
  the words of eternal life, (ESV)

Polycarp 2:3
but remembering the words which the Lord spake, as He taught; Judge not that
ye be not judged. Forgive, and it shall be forgiven to you. Have mercy that
ye may receive mercy. With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you
again; and again Blessed are the poor and they that are persecuted for
righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of God.

To be raised up as a child of Abraham, bear fruit in keeping with repentance:

  Luke 3:8 - Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say
  to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father. For I tell you, God is able
  from these stones to raise up children for Abraham.

See: 33.4.1

To be regarded as a child of Abraham, a person must fall into one of 2
categories:

• walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he
was circumcised, I believe with respect to having faith in Jesus Christ,
but I also this likely counts to adherents of the law of God (i.e. the
circumcised) who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that Abraham had
before he was circumcised
• John 8:39 - They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to
them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what
Abraham did, (ESV)
• faith in Jesus Christ:
• Galatians 3:7-9 - Know then that it is those of faith who are the
sons of Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would
justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to
Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then,
those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of
faith. (ESV)

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

I believe this also counts to those who are of the "real/spiritual
circumcision". After being born-again of the Spirit, it seems natural to want
to obey and trust God the way Abraham did and walk in works of faith like
Abraham:

  Philippians 3:3 - For we are the real circumcision, who worship by the
  Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh—
  (ESV)

  Colossians 2:11-12 - In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision
  made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the
  circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which
  you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God,
  who raised him from the dead. (ESV)

How do we become sons of Abraham:

Sermon
youtube.com: How Do Gentiles Become Sons of Abraham? Galatians 3:6, Part 3

I do believe that trusting inevitably bears fruit. Also Abraham obeyed God's
commandments - that's all tied up inside the faith which Abraham had towards
God. We must have faith in God, too, but with respect to having faith in
Jesus Christ, following Jesus Christ.

It is because of what Jesus Christ has accomplished through His obedience to
God, His death and resurrection, that having faith in Him is effective.
Everyone in Christ has Him as their High Priest.

We must be a child of Abraham. The blessing comes through being counted as
sons of Abraham.

  Romans 9:7-8 - and not all are children of Abraham because they are his
  offspring, but Through Isaac shall your offspring be named. This means that
  it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the
  children of the promise are counted as offspring. (ESV)

  Genesis 17:4 - Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father
  of a multitude of nations. (ESV)

The sign of circumcision was a seal of righteousness that he had by faith
while he was still uncircumcised.

This righteousness by faith was not based on law-keeping, but it was based on
trust and faithfulness.

Also, faith in Jesus is obedience to Jesus, because we are instructed to hold
the faith without partiality - that's faithfulness to God regarding seeking
to do His will which includes obedience to His commandments:

  James 2:1 - My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our
  Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. (ESV)

The Apostle Paul says something similar. Faith is a matter of being
accountable to God, even with respect to law-keeping:

  Romans 14:22 - The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God.
  Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what
  he approves. (ESV)

The purpose was to make him the father of all who have believing, obeying,
trusting, faithful faith without being circumcised so righteousness can be
counted to them as well.

  Romans 4:11-12 - He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the
  righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The
  purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being
  circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to
  make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but
  who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had
  before he was circumcised. (ESV)

The promises go to Christ:

  Galatians 3:16 - Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his
  offspring. It does not say, And to offsprings, referring to many, but
  referring to one, And to your offspring, who is Christ. (ESV)

We belong to Christ by faith. If you belong to Christ by faith then you are
one in spirit with Christ and Abraham's offspring, and heirs according to the
promise:

  Galatians 3:29 - And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring,
  heirs according to promise. (ESV)

A new creation lives for Christ:

  II Corinthians 5:14-17 - For the love of Christ controls us, because we
  have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died;
  and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for
  themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised. From now on,
  therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once
  regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer.
  Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed
  away; behold, the new has come.

People who are now in Christ are a new creation, and we should be
transitioning into the new. That might take some shaking off of old things,
and involves being sanctified by obedience to the Truth. But those who are in
Christ are a brand new creation:

|  5620 [e]  1487 [e] 5100 [e] 1722 [e] 5547 [e]  2537 [e]
|  hōste     ei       tis      en       Christō   kainē
|  ὥστε      εἴ       τις      ἐν       Χριστῷ  , καινὴ
|  Therefore if       anyone   [is] in  Christ    [he is] a new
|  Conj      Conj     IPro-NMS Prep     N-DMS     Adj-NFS
| 
|  2937 [e]  3588 [e] 744 [e]    3928 [e]         2400 [e]
|  ktisis    ta       archaia    parēlthen        idou
|  κτίσις  . τὰ       ἀρχαῖα     παρῆλθεν  ;      ἰδοὺ  ,
|   creation  The      old things have passed away behold
|   N-NFS     Art-NNP  Adj-NNP    V-AIA-3S         V-AMA-2S
|  
|   1096 [e]            2537 [e]
|   gegonen             kaina
|   γέγονεν             καινά  .
|   has come into being [the] new
|   V-RIA-3S            Adj-NNP

  Matthew 20:27-28 - and whoever would be first among you must be your slave,
  even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his
  life as a ransom for many. (ESV)

Jesus Christ's blood is the atonement for our sin.

We should also become obedient to Him - we must have faith in Jesus.

  John 8:39 - They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them,
  If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what Abraham did,

One of the blessings is that we are counted as righteous before God, because
we have faith in Jesus, loving Jesus.

Another promise is that we would be an heir of the world. We belong to the
Messiah. In the Messiah, God can make promises such as this to His chosen
people:

  Romans 4:13 - For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be
  heir of the world did not come through the law but through the
  righteousness of faith. (ESV)

Another promise is that in Christ (in union with Christ), the blessing of
Abraham might come to the Gentiles so that we together Jew, and Gentile,
might receive the promised Spirit (God's Spirit) through faith:

  Galatians 3:13-14 - Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by
  becoming a curse for us—for it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged
  on a tree— so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to
  the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.
  (ESV)

God can raise up children from anyone who has repentance and may grant being
a child of Abraham to anyone who walks in the footsteps of the faith that
Abraham had before he was circumcised.

  Luke 3:3-8 - And he went into all the region around the Jordan, proclaiming
  a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. As it is written in
  the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, The voice of one crying in the
  wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. Every
  valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and
  the crooked shall become straight, and the rough places shall become level
  ways, and all flesh shall see the salvation of God. He said therefore to
  the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, You brood of vipers! Who
  warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruits in keeping with
  repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our
  father. For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children
  for Abraham.

  Galatians 3:13-14 - Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by
  becoming a curse for us—for it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged
  on a tree— so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to
  the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.

John the Baptist even taught people to love one another:

  Luke 3:11-15 - And he answered them, Whoever has two tunics is to share
  with him who has none, and whoever has food is to do likewise. Tax
  collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, Teacher, what shall we
  do? And he said to them, Collect no more than you are authorized to do.
  Soldiers also asked him, And we, what shall we do? And he said to them, Do
  not extort money from anyone by threats or by false accusation, and be
  content with your wages. As the people were in expectation, and all were
  questioning in their hearts concerning John, whether he might be the
  Christ,

And I assume that repentance and loving one's neighbour are good precursors
to being baptised by Jesus with the Holy Spirit and fire:

  Luke 3:16 - John answered them all, saying, I baptize you with water, but
  he who is mightier than I is coming, the strap of whose sandals I am not
  worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.

Justification by faith is the correct teaching but the promise is for the
gentiles AND the adherent of the law but they all must have faith, and
pursuing the law as if by works is the problem, but pursuing the law by faith
is ok.

I believe in-between is OK, so long as it is by faith.

  Romans 7:22 - For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being, (ESV)

  Romans 3:29-30 - Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of
  Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one. He will justify the
  circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. (ESV)

It's possible for Gentiles to keep Jewish commandments if they want (I think
it's honorable) - but we are justified by faith in Jesus, not by being under
the law:

  Romans 2:25-29 - For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law,
  but if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So, if
  a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his
  uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically
  uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code
  and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one
  outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one
  inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by
  the letter. His praise is not from man but from God.

It's possible to keep commandments by faith:

  Romans 9:30-32 - What shall we say, then? That Gentiles who did not pursue
  righteousness have attained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith;
  but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not
  succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith,
  but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling
  stone, (ESV)

  Romans 4:15-16 - For the law brings wrath, but where there is no law there
  is no transgression. That is why it depends on faith, in order that the
  promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring-not only
  to the adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of
  Abraham, who is the father of us all, (ESV)

  Matthew 5:17-25 - Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the
  Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. For truly, I
  say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will
  pass from the Law until all is accomplished. Therefore whoever relaxes one
  of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will
  be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches
  them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless
  your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will
  never enter the kingdom of heaven. You have heard that it was said to those
  of old, You shall not murder; and whoever murders will be liable to
  judgment. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will
  be liable to judgment; whoever insults his brother will be liable to the
  council; and whoever says, You fool! will be liable to the hell of fire. So
  if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your
  brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar
  and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your
  gift. Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him
  to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge, and the judge to
  the guard, and you be put in prison. (ESV)

54.46. Theoretically belief usually comes before or at the time receiving the
Holy Spirit

But for me I believe before I was born-again and before I was baptised in the
Holy Spirit.

  Acts 19:1-7 - And it happened that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul
  passed through the inland country and came to Ephesus. There he found some
  disciples. And he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you
  believed? And they said, No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy
  Spirit. And he said, Into what then were you baptized? They said, Into
  John's baptism. And Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of
  repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after
  him, that is, Jesus. On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the
  Lord Jesus. And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came
  on them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying. There were
  about twelve men in all. (ESV)

55. Receive through the hearing of the word and faith

  Galatians 3:2 - Let me ask you only this: Did you receive the Spirit by
  works of the law or by hearing with faith? (ESV)

Not just by hearing but by hearing with faith.

55.1. Faith requires obedience

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:14 - so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come
  to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through
  faith. (ESV)

55.2. The promised Spirit is received through faith

  Galatians 3:14 - so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come
  to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through
  faith. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:16-26 - And behold, a man came up to him, saying, Teacher, what
  good deed must I do to have eternal life? And he said to him, Why do you
  ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would
  enter life, keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus
  said, You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not
  steal, You shall not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother, and,
  You shall love your neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All
  these I have kept. What do I still lack? Jesus said to him, If you would be
  perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have
  treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. When the young man heard this he
  went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his
  disciples, Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person
  enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to
  go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom
  of God. When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished,
  saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With man
  this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.

I was born-again on 2 April 2022. On 1 April 2022 (one day before) I was
wearing a pendant which on one side I had written 1023 which is decimal for
the binary 1111111111 - which are ten ones. I was trying hard to follow the
ten commandments from the heart, like Jesus teaches. I was doing this to seek
Jesus. Then I was born-again. What a mystery.

Read
cbs.mbts.edu: April 3, AD 33: Why We Believe We Can Know the Exact Date Jesus
Died - The Center for Biblical Studies

I've also seen written people's estimations that it was on April 1, but at
this time I am leaning towards April 3 as the date.

The day of the Lord (as in the second-coming of Jesus Christ) has not
happened yet:

  II Thessalonians 2:1-4 - Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ
  and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be
  quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or
  a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has
  come. Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come, unless
  the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son
  of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called god
  or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God,
  proclaiming himself to be God. (ESV)

  Matthew 24:36 - But concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the
  angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. (ESV)

Jesus is coming a second time to save those who are eagerly waiting for Him.
AMEN!!:

  Hebrews 9:27-28 - And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and
  after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the
  sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save
  those who are eagerly waiting for him. (ESV)

But I consider that Jesus may have visited me personally to make me
born-again and bring me into His service / or just into His will. But I also
strongly believe this was for my own purification - God's grace to me:

  Mark 13:32-37 - But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not
  even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Be on guard,
  keep awake. For you do not know when the time will come. It is like a man
  going on a journey, when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge,
  each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to stay awake. Therefore
  stay awake—for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in
  the evening, or at midnight, or when the cock crows, or in the morning—
  lest he come suddenly and find you asleep. And what I say to you I say to
  all: Stay awake. (ESV)

Jesus went to the place of the dead so people who had died (those who Paul is
referring to here) may also be saved. Also, it seems that the rapture
doctrine was made known from a word from the Lord:

  I Thessalonians 4:14-17 - For since we believe that Jesus died and rose
  again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have
  fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we
  who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede
  those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven
  with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound
  of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who
  are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds
  to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. (ESV)

Although it happened around midday, I was lying down on my bed very
peacefully with my cat and took a nap during the day. And when I was
born-again in this way I asked Jesus to save me because I didn't know what
was going on. So Like Paul the Apostle and the heavenly vision he received,
the idea is to be taken into service by Jesus and continue in obedient
faithfulness to Jesus. I also recognise we still wait for the eschatological
"Day of the Lord" - the second coming of Jesus has not yet happened:

  Matthew 24:41-44 - Two women will be grinding at the mill; one will be
  taken and one left. Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day
  your Lord is coming. But know this, that if the master of the house had
  known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed
  awake and would not have let his house be broken into. Therefore you also
  must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.
  (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 5:2-5 - For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of
  the Lord will come like a thief in the night. While people are saying,
  There is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them as
  labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you
  are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief.
  For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the
  night or of the darkness. (ESV)

  Romans 4:20-22 - yet, with respect to the promise of God, he did not waver
  in unbelief (570. apistia) but grew strong in faith, giving glory to God,
  and being fully assured that what God had promised, He was able also to
  perform. Therefore it was also credited to him as righteousness. (NASB)

|  apistia: unbelief
|  Original Word: ἀπιστία, ας, ἡ
|  Part of Speech: Noun, Feminine
|  Transliteration: apistia
|  Phonetic Spelling: (ap-is-tee'-ah)
|  Definition: unbelief
|  Usage: unbelief, unfaithfulness, distrust.

Remain faithful to Jesus:

  Acts 26:19 - Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the
  heavenly vision, (ESV)

  Matthew 24:12-13 - And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of
  many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
  (ESV)

  Hebrews 5:9-14 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after
  the order of Melchizedek. About this we have much to say, and it is hard to
  explain, since you have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you
  ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic
  principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food, for
  everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since
  he is a child. But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their
  powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from
  evil. (ESV)

Have your mind renewed:

  Romans 12:1-2 - I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God,
  to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God,
  which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be
  transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern
  what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

  Hebrews 5:14 - But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their
  powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from
  evil. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 5:20-21 - Do not despise prophecies, but test everything;
  hold fast what is good. (ESV)

  Isaiah 7:14-15 - Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold,
  the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
  He shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and
  choose the good. (ESV)

Since then I've been trying to follow Jesus' commandments to get to know Him
out of love for God, and because He has commanded His disciples to be
fruitful for Him, and to abide in Him.

I had my belief in Jesus Christ and I had taken small steps of faith in
remaining loyal to Jesus.

  Ezekiel 11:19-20 - And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will
  put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give
  them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules
  and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. (ESV)

The following links obeying the commandments it to Jesus:

  I Kings 11:38 - And if you will listen to all that I command you, and will
  walk in my ways, and do what is right in my eyes by keeping my statutes and
  my commandments, as David my servant did, I will be with you and will build
  you a sure house, as I built for David, and I will give Israel to you.

  II Timothy 2:8 - Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, the offspring
  of David, as preached in my gospel,

55.2.1. Everlasting covenant

  Genesis 17:19 - God said, No, but Sarah your wife shall bear you a son, and
  you shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him as an
  everlasting covenant for his offspring after him.􀧁

An indicator of the ones who are saved is that they have the fear of God in
their hearts.

  Jeremiah 32:40 - I will make with them an everlasting covenant, that I will
  not turn away from doing good to them. And I will put the fear of me in
  their hearts, that they may not turn from me. (ESV)

An indicator of the ones who are saved is that they have remorse for their
past sin.

  Ezekiel 16:58-63 - You bear the penalty of your lewdness and your
  abominations, declares the Lord. For thus says the Lord God: I will deal
  with you as you have done, you who have despised the oath in breaking the
  covenant, yet I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your
  youth, and I will establish for you an everlasting covenant. Then you will
  remember your ways and be ashamed when you take your sisters, both your
  elder and your younger, and I give them to you as daughters, but not on
  account of the covenant with you. I will establish my covenant with you,
  and you shall know that I am the Lord, that you may remember and be
  confounded, and never open your mouth again because of your shame, when I
  atone for you for all that you have done, declares the Lord God.

  Hebrews 8:10-13 - For this is the covenant that I will make with the house
  of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws into
  their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and
  they shall be my people. And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor
  and each one his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know
  me, from the least of them to the greatest. For I will be merciful toward
  their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more. In speaking of a
  new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete. And what is becoming
  obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away.

God gives the Spirit to help keep the commandments. When she says the gospel
is loving your neighbour, she is actually speaking part of the gospel. In the
way that the man on the cross next to Jesus also spoke part of the full
gospel message. They deserve the punishment but Jesus has done no wrong.

  Hosea 2:19-20 - And I will betroth you to me forever. I will betroth you to
  me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in mercy. I will
  betroth you to me in faithfulness. And you shall know the LORD. (ESV)

55.2.2. 2 years before being born again of the Spirit - prayer - proving belief
came before being born-again

https://web.archive.org/web/20220402091720/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/prayer/

Not that I have to prove it though!

55.2.3. Over easter

The old covenant is growing old and ready to vanish, but the New Covenant
still involves the commandments but they are written on our heart. We follow
them in faith.

 1. Being born-again

Being born of the Spirit isn't receiving the glory body:

https://web.archive.org/web/20220402091720/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/astral-projection/

  Galatians 6:14-17 - But far be it from me to boast except in the cross
  of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me,
  and I to the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor
  uncircumcision, but a new creation. And as for all who walk by this
  rule, peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God. From
  now on let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of
  Jesus. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Be Who You Are: Living Out Identity in Christ, Part 1

So while I have Jesus' spirit in me, I'm also still in this body of dust:

  I Corinthians 15:42-48 - So is it with the resurrection of the dead.
  What is sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable. It is sown
  in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is
  raised in power. It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual
  body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. Thus
  it is written, The first man Adam became a living being; the last Adam
  became a life-giving spirit. But it is not the spiritual that is first
  but the natural, and then the spiritual. The first man was from the
  earth, a man of dust; the second man is from heaven. As was the man of
  dust, so also are those who are of the dust, and as is the man of
  heaven, so also are those who are of heaven.

The lowly, natural, corruptible body, which I am still in, will be
transformed into an incorruptible body:

  Philippians 3:20-21 - But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we
  await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly
  body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even
  to subject all things to himself. (ESV)

As interesting as what happened to me is, regarding a light body, I
believe more important is objectively walking in the light of the truth.

  John 1:9-11 - The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming
  into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through
  him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own
  people did not receive him. (ESV)

  John 12:36 - While you have the light, believe in the light, that you
  may become sons of light. When Jesus had said these things, he departed
  and hid himself from them.

 2. Meeting with the Holy Spirit

Jesus saving me - This is evidence the Holy Spirit is Person:

https://web.archive.org/web/20220402091720/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/astral-projection-pt-2/

  I Timothy 6:20 - O Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to you,
  avoiding worldly and empty chatter and the opposing arguments of what
  is falsely called “knowledge”–

  II Timothy 1:14 - Guard, through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us, the
  treasure which has been entrusted to you.

  John 3:33-34 - Whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this,
  that God is true. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for
  he gives the Spirit without measure. (ESV)

Something I realised fairly recently. I also before having that short
conversation with Holy Spirit knew (as I was dreaming/asleep) that they
were following me:

Jesus follows us and supports us:

  I Corinthians 10:4 - and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they
  drank from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was
  Christ. (ESV)

 3. I wrote about following the law by faith, also law written on my heart.

Quote
"When Jesus said that he is the truth, he was saying that he is the
embodiment and fulfillment of the Word of God, and that he is alétheia,
reality, the opposite of what is false or illusion."

https://web.archive.org/web/20220703044748/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/the-tapestry-of-truth/

  Hebrews 8:10-13 - For this is the covenant that I will make with the
  house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws
  into their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their
  God, and they shall be my people. And they shall not teach, each one
  his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they
  shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest. For I will
  be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no
  more. In speaking of a new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete.
  And what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away.

  Romans 2:29 - But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is
  that which is of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter; and his
  praise is not from men, but from God.

  I Corinthians 7:19 - For neither circumcision counts for anything nor
  uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. (ESV)

 4. Baptised in the Holy Spirit

https://web.archive.org/web/20220806085237/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/astral-projection-pt-3/

Betrothed to God:

  Hosea 2:19-20 - And I will betroth you to me forever. I will betroth
  you to me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in
  mercy. I will betroth you to me in faithfulness. And you shall know the
  LORD. (ESV)

AMEN!!

  Hosea 2:21-23 - And in that day I will answer, declares the Lord, I
  will answer the heavens, and they shall answer the earth, and the earth
  shall answer the grain, the wine, and the oil, and they shall answer
  Jezreel, and I will sow her for myself in the land. And I will have
  mercy on No Mercy, and I will say to Not My People, You are my people;
  and he shall say, You are my God.

AMEN!!

  II Corinthians 11:2 - I feel a divine jealousy for you, for I betrothed
  you to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. (ESV)

Some people believe that the baptism by fire is arriving at Christian
perfection:

• en.wikipedia.org: Christian perfection - Wikipedia

Even though I felt spiritually restored when I was baptised in the Holy
Spirit / baptised by fire, I believe I am baptised by fire in order to
obey God more fully, and to love God with my whole heart, to love my
neighbour as myself and to pursue perfection in following Jesus!

  Matthew 5:48 - You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father
  is perfect. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell
  what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in
  heaven; and come, follow me. (ESV)

In other words, I received the grace before I had perfect obedience, and
I believe I should not exchange this grace for anything, but use it to
obey Jesus Christ:

  Jude 1:4 - For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were
  designated for this condemnation, ungodly people, who pervert the grace
  of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus
  Christ. (ESV)

  Jude 1:4 - For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before
  of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of
  our God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our
  Lord Jesus Christ. (KJV)

I believe that after I made testimony of being born-again and baptised by
fire, I needed to be sanctified/corrected by the Truth, the Word of God,
and as a consequence of endeavouring to do so by repenting and becoming
obedient to Jesus, I was spiritually attacked and deplatformed.

55.3. Later in the year

  John 15:26 - “When the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the
  Father, that is the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, He will
  testify about Me, (ESV)

https://web.archive.org/web/20220402091720/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/dream-the-way-the-truth-the-life/

55.4. Jesus is our Eternal High Priest

  Hebrews 7:26 - For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high
  priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted
  above the heavens. (ESV)

  Hebrews 7:27 - He has no need, like those high priests, to offer sacrifices
  daily, first for his own sins and then for those of the people, since he
  did this once for all when he offered up himself. (ESV)

Jesus is not only Eternal High Priest, but Son of God, and made perfect
forever. AMEN!!:

  Hebrews 7:28 - For the law appoints men in their weakness as high priests,
  but the word of the oath, which came later than the law, appoints a Son who
  has been made perfect forever. (ESV)

Jesus is our Great High High Priest:

  Hebrews 4:14-16 - Since then we have a great high priest who has passed
  through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our
  confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize
  with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we
  are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne
  of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.
  (ESV)

55.5. New covenant

The first covenant had fault, but the New Covenant has no fault:

  Hebrews 8:6-9 - But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as
  much more excellent than the old as the covenant he mediates is better,
  since it is enacted on better promises. For if that first covenant had been
  faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second. For he
  finds fault with them when he says: Behold, the days are coming, declares
  the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and
  with the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their
  fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the
  land of Egypt. For they did not continue in my covenant, and so I showed no
  concern for them, declares the Lord. (ESV)

God writes His laws on our minds and on our hearts:

  Hebrews 8:10-13 - For this is the covenant that I will make with the house
  of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws into
  their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and
  they shall be my people. And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor
  and each one his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know
  me, from the least of them to the greatest. For I will be merciful toward
  their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more. In speaking of a
  new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete. And what is becoming
  obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away.

Covenants require faithfulness between both parties, But Jesus is faithful
even when we are unfaithful:

  II Timothy 2:13 - if we are faithless, he remains faithful— for he cannot
  deny himself. (ESV)

We come to know God through Jesus by faith and we are able to move on from
dead works and focus more on faith towards God, and serving God now.

  Hebrews 6:1 - Therefore leaving the elementary teaching about the Christ,
  let us press on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance
  from dead works and of faith toward God, (ESV)

  Hebrews 9:14 - how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the
  eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God, cleanse your
  conscience from dead works to serve the living God? (ESV)

  Hebrews 9:11-15 - But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good
  things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not
  made with hands, that is, not of this creation) he entered once for all
  into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by
  means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the
  sprinkling of defiled persons with the blood of goats and bulls and with
  the ashes of a heifer sanctifies for the purification of the flesh, how
  much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered
  himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to
  serve the living God. Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so
  that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance,
  since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions
  committed under the first covenant. (ESV)

  Hebrews 9:18-20 - Therefore not even the first covenant was inaugurated
  without blood. For when every commandment of the law had been declared by
  Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water
  and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the
  people, saying, This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for
  you. (ESV)

  Mark 14:22-25 - And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing
  it broke it and gave it to them, and said, Take; this is my body. And he
  took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all
  drank of it. And he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant, which
  is poured out for many. Truly, I say to you, I will not drink again of the
  fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

  Luke 22:15-20 - And he said to them, I have earnestly desired to eat this
  Passover with you before I suffer. For I tell you I will not eat it until
  it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took a cup, and when he had
  given thanks he said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves. For I tell
  you that from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the
  kingdom of God comes. And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he
  broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is my body, which is given for
  you. Do this in remembrance of me. And likewise the cup after they had
  eaten, saying, This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in
  my blood. (ESV)

  John 6:46-51 - Not that anyone has seen the Father, except the One who is
  from God; He has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, he who
  believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the
  manna in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread which comes down
  out of heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread
  that came down out of heaven; if anyone eats of this bread, he will live
  forever; and the bread also which I will give for the life of the world is
  My flesh.” (ESV)

  John 6:52 - Then the Jews began to argue with one another, saying, “How can
  this man give us His flesh to eat?”

  John 6:53-56 - So Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless
  you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life
  in yourselves. He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life,
  and I will raise him up on the last day. For My flesh is true food, and My
  blood is true drink. He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me,
  and I in him. (ESV)

  John 6:57-58 - As the living Father sent Me, and I live because of the
  Father, so he who eats Me, he also will live because of Me. This is the
  bread which came down out of heaven; not as the fathers ate and died; he
  who eats this bread will live forever.”

  John 6:59-60 - These things He said in the synagogue as He taught in
  Capernaum. Therefore many of His disciples, when they heard this said,
  “This is a difficult statement; who can listen to it?”

  John 6:61-62 - But Jesus, conscious that His disciples grumbled at this,
  said to them, “Does this cause you to stumble? What then if you see the Son
  of Man ascending to where He was before?

  John 6:63-65 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh profits nothing;
  the words that I have spoken to you are spirit and are life. But there are
  some of you who do not believe.” For Jesus knew from the beginning who they
  were who did not believe, and who it was that would betray Him. And He was
  saying, “For this reason I have said to you, that no one can come to Me
  unless it has been granted him from the Father.”

55.6. Life is very different for me now after being born-again

As you can see in this discussion, I've been born-again and I'm living to
serve Jesus now:

• https://github.com/semiosis/pen.el/issues

  Colossians 3:3 - For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in
  God. (ESV)

  I John 5:11 - And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and
  this life is in his Son. (ESV)

  Luke 12:23 - For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 19:17 - And he said to him, Why do you ask me about what is good?
  There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the
  commandments. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:17 - Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new
  creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.

  Galatians 6:14 - But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our
  Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I to
  the world. (ESV)

It's important to thank God, even though life can be challenging after being
born-again:

  I Thessalonians 5:18 - give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the
  will of God in Christ Jesus for you. (ESV)

55.6.1. The 'wilderness' - I guess this is common experience/season for
born-again season Christians after being baptised / born-again of the Spirit

Well explained here:

• youtube.com: Wilderness How To Come Out / New Wineskin New Season #2024

  Matthew 3:15-17 - But Jesus answered him, Let it be so now, for thus it is
  fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he consented. And when
  Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the
  heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a
  dove and coming to rest on him; and behold, a voice from heaven said, This
  is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. (ESV)

Jesus Himself used the Scriptures to combat lies from the enemy:

  Matthew 4:1-11 - Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to
  be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he
  was hungry. And the tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of
  God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But he answered, It is
  written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes
  from the mouth of God. Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him
  on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, If you are the Son of God,
  throw yourself down, for it is written, He will command his angels
  concerning you, and On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike
  your foot against a stone. Jesus said to him, Again it is written, You
  shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Again, the devil took him to a
  very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their
  glory. And he said to him, All these I will give you, if you will fall down
  and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan! For it is written,
  You shall worship the Lord your God and him only shall you serve. Then the
  devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him. (ESV)

The lies certainly come not just through dreams, etc. but through other
people. We are tested and must use the word of God to fight against lies:

  Ephesians 6:17 - and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the
  Spirit, which is the word of God, (ESV)

We have to learn the voice of God.

The Holy Spirit train us to learn the voice of God.

55.7. Born of Water and the Spirit

When a person is born-again of the Spirit, they receive the Spirit which
helps them to forsake sin and it's really important to do so.

  1 Peter 1:23 - since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but
  of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God; (ESV)

  1 John 5:18 - We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep
  on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does
  not touch him. (ESV)

  Ezekiel 11:19-20 - And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will
  put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give
  them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules
  and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 32:40 - I will make with them an everlasting covenant, that I will
  not turn away from doing good to them. And I will put the fear of me in
  their hearts, that they may not turn from me. (ESV)

  I John 3:9 - No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed
  abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of
  God.

But I would much like my dream life to be like the following:

  John 5:19 - So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can
  do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For
  whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise.

Whoever loves in the way Jesus loved us and the way Jesus commanded us has
been born of God and knows God.

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God.

Knowing God involves loving one another the way Jesus instructed us and we
can get there by following Jesus' commandments:

  John 8:19 - They said to him therefore, Where is your Father? Jesus
  answered, You know neither me nor my Father. If you knew me, you would know
  my Father also. (ESV)

  I John 4:12 - No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides
  in us and his love is perfected in us. (ESV)

Anyone who truly believes.

We must receive Jesus' words, walk in them and come to know in truth (we must
truly know) that Jesus came from God.

  John 17:8 - For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have
  received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and they
  have believed that you sent me.

Therefore, we should obey Jesus and arrive at the truth. Obedience is a part
of faith. Like Abraham obeying God, or like Israel crossing through the Red
Sea, it's obedience which leads to sure belief. And the obedience doesn't
end.

  John 8:31-32 - So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed Him, “If
  you continue in My word, then you are truly disciples of Mine; and you will
  know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” (NASB)

  I John 5:1 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him.

  I John 5:4 - For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And
  this is the victory that has overcome the world-our faith.

  I John 5:18 - We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep
  on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does
  not touch him.

I feel like stopping sin is very important after being born again.

  John 5:14 - Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See,
  you are well! Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you.

55.8. Justification by faith for the both adherents of the law and the gentiles

Justification by faith is the correct teaching but the promise is for the
gentiles AND the adherent of the law but they all must have faith, and
pursuing the law as if by works is the problem, but pursuing the law by faith
is ok.

  Romans 7:22 - For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being, (ESV)

  Romans 9:30-32 - What shall we say, then? That Gentiles who did not pursue
  righteousness have attained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith;
  but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not
  succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith,
  but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling
  stone, (ESV)

  Romans 4:15-16 - For the law brings wrath, but where there is no law there
  is no transgression. That is why it depends on faith, in order that the
  promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring-not only
  to the adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of
  Abraham, who is the father of us all, (ESV)

55.9. Paul used the law to judge back, but without hypocrisy

  Matthew 23:27 - Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are
  like whitewashed tombs, which outwardly appear beautiful, but within are
  full of dead people's bones and all uncleanness.

  Acts 23:3 - Then Paul said to him, God is going to strike you, you
  whitewashed wall! Are you sitting to judge me according to the law, and yet
  contrary to the law you order me to be struck?

55.10. Justified by God through faith [and works done in faith?]

All of these, for example, I believe belong under the umbrella of faith, not
works:

• Taking communion is not 'dead works'. It's obedience.
• Getting baptised is not 'dead works'. It's obedience.
• Obeying Jesus Christ's commandments are not 'dead works'. It's obedience.

God will be the judge of who has had faith in Jesus, and who has obeyed Him.

55.10.1. God is the one who justifies

  Romans 8:33 - Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who
  justifies.

  Romans 8:30 - And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom
  he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified.
  (ESV)

But repentance is a work of the heart which is an act of faith. I believe
repentance is inseparable from faith because intrinsic to faith is belief and
intrinsic to belief is metanoia (changing one's mind).

At it's most basic form repentance (metanoia) means a person changes their
mind to believe and trust and have a heart of obedience - accepting of the
will of God. To repent means stop distrusting and start trusting God.

We have believe Jesus and to trust Jesus. When Jesus says He is the Son of
God, we must believe it because we trust Him. Likewise when He commands us to
repent from sinning we should agree with Jesus and be obedient:

  John 16:8-9 - And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin
  and righteousness and judgment: concerning sin, because they do not believe
  in me; (ESV)

We need to heed Jesus' warning that we need to change our minds or perish. We
have to stop believing falsehood and believe the truth, believe/trust Jesus
and Jesus' words:

  Luke 13:3 - No, I tell you; but unless you repent (3340. metanoeó), you
  will all likewise perish. (ESV)

We keep eyes on Jesus and trust Him:

  Hebrews 12:2 - looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith,
  who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the
  shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. (ESV)

  Isaiah 12:2 - Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and will not be
  afraid; for the LORD GOD is my strength and my song, and he has become my
  salvation. (ESV)

Most importantly we must believe in Jesus as the Son of God and the Messiah
who, being innocent, paid the price for their sin through His broken body and
shed blood on the cross - a perfect and eternal offering; that He died there
but God resurrected Him, and He is Lord of Heaven and Earth, and has a heart
of obedience to the will of God, wanting to do the will of God, which
involves their sanctification.

We must honour Jesus.

But I believe we are forgiven to forgive others. That must be part of the act
of faith and the change of heart, I think.

  Matthew 6:15 - but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither
  will your Father forgive your trespasses. (ESV)

55.10.2. We have been saved, we are being saved, and we will be saved

• simplybible.com: Saved in Three Tenses

We have been saved (when we believed):

  II Timothy 1:9 - who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because
  of our works but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in
  Christ Jesus before the ages began, (ESV)

  I Corinthians 6:11 - And such were some of you. But you were washed, you
  were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ
  and by the Spirit of our God. (ESV)

We are being saved:

  I Corinthians 1:18 - For the word of the cross is folly to those who are
  perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 2:15 - For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who
  are being saved and among those who are perishing, (ESV)

  Philippians 2:12-13 - Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so
  now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your
  own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both
  to will and to work for his good pleasure. (ESV)

We shall be saved:

  Romans 5:9-10 - Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood,
  much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we
  were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more,
  now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. (ESV)

  Romans 13:11 - Besides this you know the time, that the hour has come for
  you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we
  first believed. (ESV)

  Ephesians 1:14 - who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire
  possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

55.10.3. Justified by faith alone. But faith is substantiated by works, Jesus'
works which is entirely sufficient and Jesus working in us even by our
obedience

  James 2:10 - For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has
  become accountable for all of it. For he who said, Do not commit adultery,
  also said, Do not murder. If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you
  have become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as those who are
  to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to one
  who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. What good is it, my
  brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that
  faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in
  daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled,
  without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So
  also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will
  say, You have faith and I have works. Show me your faith apart from your
  works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is
  one; you do well. Even the demons believe-and shudder! Do you want to be
  shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless? Was not
  Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on
  the altar? You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith
  was completed by his works; and the Scripture was fulfilled that says,
  Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness-and he was
  called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works and not
  by faith alone.

I tend to agree with James on this. Eliminating works from faith is not good.

Works:

• obedience
• faithfulness
• keeping God's commandments
• trust
• fear of God
• response of love
• thankfulness
• praise
• forgiving others
• humility
• keeping God's commandments
• patient endurance (time)

We're sure that we abide in Christ when we are keeping His commandments:

  I John 2:1-6 - My little children, I am writing these things to you so that
  you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the
  Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins,
  and not for ours only but also for the sins of the whole world. And by this
  we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments. Whoever
  says I know him but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth
  is not in him, but whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is
  perfected. By this we may be sure that we are in him: whoever says he
  abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked. (ESV)

If a person is trusting/believing (verb) that Jesus Christ is the Son of the
Living God then they abide in Christ:

  I John 4:16 - So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has
  for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God
  abides in him. (ESV)

If a person hates their brother they don't have eternal life:

  I John 4:21 - And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must
  also love his brother. (ESV)

  I John 3:15 - Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know
  that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. (ESV)

If a person loves one another, they have been born of God:

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

We need to have love for one another to be saved as we believe in Jesus to be
saved.

How can a person believe without having a heart that trusts Jesus? How can a
person have life without a relationship with God?

A relationship involves more than just 'belief', but I'm quite sure it also
means being a conduit of Christ's love.

  II Timothy 2:19 - But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal: The
  Lord knows those who are his, and, Let everyone who names the name of the
  Lord depart from iniquity. (ESV)

If a person does not have obedience, trust and repentance from sin, but their
faith has belief, then they only abide in Jesus extremely precariously, and
also that person's 'faith' probably wont receive much at all from God.

  Psalms 119:105 - Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
  (ESV)

Hebrews 11 describes faith. We must live by faith:

  Hebrews 10:37-39 - For, Yet a little while, and the coming one will come
  and will not delay; but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he
  shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who
  shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve
  their souls. (ESV)

Our faith must be sound. We must believe and have assurance in the Truth:

  Titus 2:1-2 - But as for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine. Older
  men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in
  love, and in steadfastness. (ESV)

Faith comes from hearing the word of Christ. Christ's words are Absolute
Truth, therefore, as we believe them, it increases our faith:

  Romans 10:17 - So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of
  Christ. (ESV)

With faith we believe what God's Word tells us:

  Hebrews 11:1-3 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their
  commendation. By faith we understand that the universe was created by the
  word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are
  visible. (ESV)

We walk by faith, not by sight:

  II Corinthians 5:7 - for we walk by faith, not by sight. (ESV)

Faith in the Truth naturally produces evidence of the faith, as a person is
believing the Truth, and operating in the Truth, people should be able to
recognise it:

  James 2:18 - But someone will say, You have faith and I have works. Show me
  your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works.
  (ESV)

The object of our faith is Jesus, who is the Truth:

  Revelation of John 14:12 - Here is a call for the endurance of the saints,
  those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus. (ESV)

The Truth is that we know we can ask God for things, then by faith we can ask
from God and await to receive:

  James 1:6 - But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who
  doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind.
  (ESV)

Faith in Jesus is something we aim to keep our entire lives:

  Galatians 2:20 - I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who
  live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I
  live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
  (ESV)

  II Timothy 4:7 - I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I
  have kept the faith. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:16 - holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of
  Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. (ESV)

The rhema word of God:

  Hebrews 5:12 - For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any
  two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints
  and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
  (ESV)

What is the rhema word? | GotQuestions.org

  Hebrews 11:1-3 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their
  commendation. By faith we understand that the universe was created by the
  word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are
  visible. (ESV)

We should put our faith in God:

  Mark 11:22 - And Jesus answered them, Have faith in God.

I put a bunch of concepts together to describe faith:

|  Faith-in-God = Hope-from/in-God * Work/Love/Walking-By-Faith
| 
|  Hope-from/in-God = Belief(believing God) * Truth(God's word is Truth, Jesus is the Truth)
| 
|  Work/Love/Walking-By-Faith = Obedience * Faithfulness * Fear-of-God * Response-of-love-to-Jesus * Patient-Endurance(time)
| 
|  Obedience = Submitting to the Righteousness of God * Turning from sin, loving, showing mercy, etc.
| 
|  Fear-of-God = e.g. The poor in spirit recognise their need of God's mercy and tremble at His Word: "beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner!"
|                 Fear of God is not only about having the heart to repent from sin and "beat hand on chest and ask God for mercy", but it is also having a changed heart,
|                 endeavoring to please Christ with our actions.
|                 godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret
|  
|   Response-of-love-to-Jesus = e.g. praise, thankfulness, obeying His commandments
|  
|   Love is proportional-to the baggage which has been forgiven
|   Love ∝ forgiven-baggage
|  
|   Obedience ∝ Love
|  
|   F = H * L
|  
|   Faith-in-God when tested by God is found to be true Faith in God.
|   Faith-in-God must submit to the Righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ,
|   Jesus Christ having paid the price of sin, enabling a relationship with God.

These things are factors of faith.

  Galatians 5:6 - For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision
  counts for anything, but only faith working through love. (ESV)

God is the judge.

When we do what Jesus says, it's as if Jesus is working through us. We are
like a man building a house, but it is actually the Lord Jesus building it. A
person must/should do what Jesus said:

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

  Psalms 127:1 - Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor
  in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in
  vain.

  Matthew 7:24-27 - Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them
  will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell,
  and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did
  not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears
  these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who
  built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and
  the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the
  fall of it. (ESV)

|  :  4102  pistis  pis'-tis
| 
|   from 3982; persuasion, i.e. credence; moral conviction (of religious
|   truth, or the truthfulness of God or a religious teacher), especially
|   reliance upon Christ for salvation; abstractly, constancy in such
|   profession; by extension, the system of religious (Gospel) truth
|   itself:--assurance, belief, believe, faith, fidelity.
|   see GREEK for 3982

  Galatians 2:15 - "We are Jews (G2453 Ioudaios) by nature (G5449 phusis) and
  not sinners (G268 hamartolos) from among (G1537 ek) the Gentiles (G1484
  ethnos);

Justified through (G1223 dia) faith (G4102 pistis) in Christ.

  Galatians 2:16 - nevertheless (G1161 de) knowing (G3609 oikeios) that a man
  (G444 anthropos) is not justified (G1344 dikaioo) by the works (G2041
  ergon) of the Law (G3551 nomos) but through (G1223 dia) faith (G4102
  pistis) in Christ (G5547 Christos) Jesus (G2424 Iesous), even (G2532 kai)
  we have believed (G4100 pisteuo) in Christ (G5547 Christos) Jesus (G2424
  Iesous), so (G2443 hina) that we may be justified (G1344 dikaioo) by faith
  (G4102 pistis) in Christ (G5547 Christos) and not by the works (G2041
  ergon) of the Law (G3551 nomos); since (G3754 hoti) by the works (G2041
  ergon) of the Law (G3551 nomos) no (G3756 ou) (G3956 pas) flesh (G4561
  sarx) will be justified (G1344 dikaioo).

Justified through (G1223 dia) faith (G4102 pistis) in Christ (G5547 Christos)
Jesus (G2424 Iesous). Pistis is a strong word for faith that doesn't merely
encapsulate belief, but it includes trust.

The greeks can turn the noun faith into the verb believing faith (G4100
pisteuo). It's not the noun 'believe' as the root of the verb faith

we have believed (G4100 pisteuo) in Christ means we have 'faithed' in Christ.

The 'believing faith' verb pisteuo has a root of faith (pistis).

Faith is a relationship with God. Before Abraham believed God, he obeyed God.
Faith requires belief but it's more than belief.

  I Timothy 4:1: But the Spirit (G4151 pneuma) explicitly says that in later
  times some will fall away from the faith (G4102 pistis), paying attention
  to deceitful spirits (G4151 pneuma) and doctrines of demons (G1140
  daimonion), (NASB)

Faith is ongoing. Ongoing faith is patience endurance. Jesus says patience
endurance is a work.

  Revelation of John 2:19 - I know your works, your love and faith and
  service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first.

55.10.4. Paul here mentions trust even for the one who trusts in Him who
justifies the ungodly

  Romans 4:2 - For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to
  boast about, but not before God.

Paul doesn't deny that Abraham could have been justified by works, but he
claims that Abraham doesn't have anything to boast about before God.

  Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts him who justifies
  the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness,

So Paul says that for someone who does not have any works but trusts Him who
justifies the ungodly, the person's trusting faith is counted as
righteousness.

AMEN!! God is good for justifying people who are poor of spirit, and have
fear of God.

55.11. Conditional Promises In The New Testament

The Sermon on the Mount from Matthew 5 may better be understood as describing
the transformation that happens when we are born-again.

The resources to be transformed are not in ourselves. Jesus does the
transformation.

We yield our life to Lord Jesus Christ, and our life doesn't lose control
when we yield control over it to Jesus.

We should be able to see the transformation described in the sermon of the
mount.

55.11.1.

  Matthew 5:3 - Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of
  heaven. (ESV)

Condition: Those who are poor in spirit
Promise: They will inherit the kingdom of Heaven

55.11.2.

  Matthew 5:4 - Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
  (ESV)

Condition: Those who mourn
Promise: They will be comforted

55.11.3.

  Matthew 5:5 - Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. (ESV)

Condition: For the gentle, humble and/or meek
Promise: They will be inherit the Earth

55.11.4.

  Matthew 5:10 - Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness'
  sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. (ESV)

Condition: It's those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness
Promise: The Kingdom of Heaven will be theirs.

55.11.5.

  Matthew 5:11-13 - Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you
  and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and
  be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the
  prophets who were before you. You are the salt of the earth, but if salt
  has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer
  good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.
  (ESV)

The "salt of the earth" are the disciples of Jesus.

  Ignatius to the Magnesians 10 - Let us not, therefore, be insensible to His
  kindness. For were He to reward us according to our works, we should cease
  to be. Therefore, having become His disciples, let us learn to live
  according to the principles of Christianity. For whosoever is called by any
  other name besides this, is not of God. Lay aside, therefore, the evil, the
  old, the sour leaven, and be ye changed into the new leaven, which is Jesus
  Christ. Be ye salted in Him, lest any one among you should be corrupted,
  since by your savour ye shall be convicted. It is absurd to profess Christ
  Jesus, and to Judaize. For Christianity did not embrace Judaism, but
  Judaism Christianity, that so every tongue which believeth might be
  gathered together to God.

People may take offense to disciples of Jesus as they did to Jesus, but we
should still remain 'salty', which would predictably offend some people while
it hasn't lost its taste, and it's desirable for Jesus' disciples to be set
apart for God, and distinct the world.

  Matthew 11:6 - And blessed is the one who is not offended by me. (ESV)

  John 15:18 - If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it
  hated you. (ESV)

Condition: If people revile and persecute you for Jesus' sake and your faith
in Him
Promise: The Son of Man (Jesus) will reward you in Heaven and the reward will
be great

Song
youtube.com: I Asked The Lord by John Newton - Indelible Grace

Song
youtube.com: I Asked the Lord that I Might Grow | Hymn by John Newton | 2
Corinthians 12 : 7-10

  II Corinthians 12:7-10 - So to keep me from being too elated by the
  surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh,
  a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from being too elated. Three
  times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he
  said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in
  weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so
  that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then, I
  am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and
  calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong. (ESV)

55.11.6.

  Matthew 11:6 - And blessed is the one who is not offended by me. (ESV)

Condition: If you are not offended by Jesus
Promise: You are blessed.

55.11.7.

  Matthew 7:7 - Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find;
  knock, and it will be opened to you. (ESV)

────────────────────────────────────────
Condition            Promise
────────────────────────────────────────
If you ask    It will be given you
If you seek   You will find
If you knock  It will be opened to you
────────────────────────────────────────

  Jeremiah 29:13-14 - You will seek me and find me. When you seek me with all
  your heart, I will be found by you, declares the LORD, and I will restore
  your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where
  I have driven you, declares the LORD, and I will bring you back to the
  place from which I sent you into exile. (ESV)

55.11.8.

  Matthew 24:14 - And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed
  throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end
  will come. (ESV)

Condition: When the Gospel has been preached to all nations in the whole
world.
Promise: The end (eschaton) will come.

55.11.9.

  Matthew 24:45-47 - Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his
  master has set over his household, to give them their food at the proper
  time? Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he
  comes. Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions. (ESV)

Condition: If that person is faithful and wise in charge of the "little
things"
Promise: God will make a person ruler over all that is His (His possessions).

55.11.10.

  Mark 9:41 - For truly, I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to
  drink because you belong to Christ will by no means lose his reward. (ESV)

Condition: Giving a cup of water (being charitable) in Christ's name for the
exact reason that we belong to Christ.
Promise: A person will not lose their reward.

55.11.11.

  John 3:16 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. (ESV)

Condition: To whosoever will have faith in the true God by being faithful to
His Son
Promise: You will have eternal life

Stress: Trust in God.

55.11.12.

  Romans 8:31 - What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who
  can be against us? (ESV)

Condition: When God is for you.
Promise: No one can be against you.

55.11.13.

  Philippians 3:20-21 - But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we
  await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to
  be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject
  all things to himself. (ESV)

  Philippians 4:1 - Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy
  and crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. (ESV)

Condition: If we stand firm in the Lord
Promise: Jesus will transform our current perishing bodies in exchange for a
body that does not perish like His glorious body (Resurrection body)

55.11.14.

  Philippians 4:13 - I can do all things through him who strengthens me.
  (ESV)

Condition: If Christ strengthens us
Promise: We can do all things.

55.11.15.

  Colossians 3:1-4 - If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the
  things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.
  Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth.
  For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ
  who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.
  (ESV)

Condition: If we too are risen or raised up in Christ, and seeking the things
above
Promise: When Christ appears at the second coming, we will appear with Him in
glory.

55.11.16.

  1 Thessalonians 4:14-17 - For since we believe that Jesus died and rose
  again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have
  fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we
  who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede
  those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven
  with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound
  of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who
  are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds
  to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. (ESV)

Condition: If we have faith that Jesus died and rose again.
Promise: The dead in Christ will rise first, then we who are still alive will
be called up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. We
will then be with the Lord forever after that.

55.11.17.

  II Timothy 4:6-9 - For I am already being poured out as a drink offering,
  and the time of my departure has come. I have fought the good fight, I have
  finished the race, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for
  me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will
  award to me on that Day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved
  his appearing. Do your best to come to me soon.

Condition: Those who have loved His appearing and faithfully preach the
Gospel and the Word of God in season and out of season.
Promise: There is a crown of righteousness laid up for us by God which I will
be awarded with on my day of glory.

55.11.18.

  Hebrews 12:28 - Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that
  cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to God acceptable worship, with
  reverence and awe, (ESV)

Condition: If we serve Him with reverence and fear.
Promise: We will serve God acceptably.

55.11.19.

  James 1:5-6 - If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives
  generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. But let him
  ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of
  the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. (ESV)

Condition: If you ask of God in faith.
Promise: Wisdom will be given.

55.11.20.

  James 1:12 - Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when
  he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has
  promised to those who love him. (ESV)

Condition: If we endure trials by temptation and love the Lord.
Promise: We will receive the crown of life

55.11.21.

  1 Peter 5:1-4 - So I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder and a
  witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory
  that is going to be revealed: shepherd the flock of God that is among you,
  exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would
  have you; not for shameful gain, but eagerly; not domineering over those in
  your charge, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief Shepherd
  appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. (ESV)

Condition: If they feed the flock God has given them, by taking the oversight
of the flock willingly and not for money (blood money). Thereby setting an
example for said flock.
Promise: Elders will receive a crown of glory that will not fade.

55.11.22.

  1 John 3:2 - Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has
  not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him,
  because we shall see him as he is. (ESV)

Condition: If we are children of God
Promise: When Jesus appears we will be like Him

55.11.23.

  1 John 3:9 - No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed
  abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of
  God. (ESV)

Condition: If/because we have been born of God
Promise: A Christian cannot habitually sin without feeling horrible and
wishing to repentant of it.

55.11.24.

  2 John 1:7-8 - For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who
  do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the
  deceiver and the antichrist. Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose
  what we have worked for, but may win a full reward. (ESV)

Condition: If we acknowledge that Jesus has indeed come in the flesh
(incarnate).
Promise: We will receive our full reward from God.

55.11.25.

  Revelation 2:7 - He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to
  the churches. To the one who conquers I will grant to eat of the tree of
  life, which is in the paradise of God. (ESV)

Condition: If we persevere over evil and endure for Christ's namesake and
overcome (persecution and trials)
Promise: We will be allowed to eat from the Tree of Life which is in the
paradise of God

55.11.26.

  Revelation 2:10 - Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the
  devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested,
  and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I
  will give you the crown of life. (ESV)

Condition: If we are faithful to the point of death.
Promise: Jesus Himself will give you a crown of life.

55.11.27.

  Revelation 2:11 - He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to
  the churches. The one who conquers will not be hurt by the second death.
  (ESV)

Condition: If we overcome persecution and trials
Promise: We will not be hurt by the second death which is damnation in the
Lake of Fire

55.11.28.

  Revelation 2:17 - He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to
  the churches. To the one who conquers I will give some of the hidden manna,
  and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone
  that no one knows except the one who receives it. (ESV)

Condition: If we overcome persecution and trials
Promise: Jesus will allow us to eat of the hidden Manna and will give a us
white stone with a new name written on it that only the one that receives it
will know.

55.11.29.

  Revelation 2:23 - and I will strike her children dead. And all the churches
  will know that I am he who searches mind and heart, and I will give to each
  of you as your works deserve. (ESV)

Condition: According to their works.
Promise: Jesus will give to every one.

55.11.30.

  Revelation 2:26-28 - The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the
  end, to him I will give authority over the nations, and he will rule them
  with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I
  myself have received authority from my Father. And I will give him the
  morning star. (ESV)

Condition: To those that overcome and keep Jesus' works until the bitter end
Promise: Jesus will give power over the nations and will give the morning
star

55.11.31.

  Revelation 3:21 - The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on
  my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne.
  (ESV)

Condition: To those that overcome persecution and trials.
Promise: Jesus will allow people to sit with Him on His throne

55.11.32.

  Revelation 20:4 - Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom
  the authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had
  been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God, and who
  had not worshiped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on
  their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ
  for a thousand years. (ESV)

Condition: Those that did not worship the beast, nor his image, nor received
his mark (666)
Promise: Some will live and reign with Christ for 1000 years.

55.12. Body without spirit is dead. But I think the spirit without the body is
still alive

  James 2:26 - For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith
  apart from works is dead.

  Matthew 22:32 - I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God
  of Jacob? He is not God of the dead, but of the living.

  Mark 12:27 - He is not God of the dead, but of the living. You are quite
  wrong.

  Luke 20:38 - Now he is not God of the dead, but of the living, for all live
  to him.

Yet we await an imperishable body.

55.13. Forgiveness and ongoing sin

  I Corinthians 9:25-27 - Every athlete exercises self-control in all things.
  They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable. So I do
  not run aimlessly; I do not box as one beating the air. But I discipline my
  body and keep it under control, lest after preaching to others I myself
  should be disqualified.

55.13.1. New covenant

  Jeremiah 31:31-34 - Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I
  will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah,
  not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took
  them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant that
  they broke, though I was their husband, declares the LORD. But this is the
  covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days,
  declares the LORD: I will put my law within them, and I will write it on
  their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no
  longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, Know
  the LORD, for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the
  greatest, declares the LORD. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will
  remember their sin no more. (ESV)

I'm confident that God gives a person a new life in Christ Jesus, where God
has totally forgiven their past sin, but expects them to turn a new leaf and
turn away from sin.

  1 Peter 1:18-20 - knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways
  inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver
  or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without
  blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but
  was made manifest in the last times for your sake, (ESV)

We must have faith in Jesus for the righteousness of God that comes by faith.

  Romans 10:4 - For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to
  everyone who believes.

Jesus is our High Priest:

  Romans 8:1 - There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in
  Christ Jesus. (ESV)

  Romans 8:3-4 - For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could
  not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin,
  he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of
  the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but
  according to the Spirit. (ESV)

Jesus condemned sin in the flesh. Now we walk according to the spirit so that
the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us - doing no harm
to our neighbour:

  Romans 13:8 - Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one
  who loves another has fulfilled the law. (ESV)

It's still really important to put a stop to sin, and show no partiality as
we love our neighbour as ourselves, doing no harm to our neighbour and
bearing one another's burdens!

  James 2:1 - My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our
  Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. (ESV)

  Galatians 6:2 - Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of
  Christ.

Grace given through faith alone is not license to sin, but the power of
salvation to be corrected, healed and brought into obedience to God, and into
loving God and your neighbour.

55.13.2. We must seek to stop sinning after receiving the 'big forgiveness' for
past sin

  Matthew 12:33 - Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the
  tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit.

Repentance leads to the knowledge of the truth, and ceasing to do the devil's
will:

  II Timothy 2:24-26 - And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but
  kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his
  opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to
  a knowledge of the truth, and they may escape from the snare of the devil,
  after being captured by him to do his will. (ESV)

We must cease to do the devil's will:

  Hebrews 10:26-31 - For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the
  knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a
  fearful expectation of judgment, and a fury of fire that will consume the
  adversaries. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy
  on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment, do
  you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God, and
  has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has
  outraged the Spirit of grace? For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine;
  I will repay. And again, The Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful
  thing to fall into the hands of the living God. (ESV)

We are cleansed from our former sins and we must forsake sin, stop obeying
it, turn away from sin, and from the corruption in the world, and instead
follow Jesus to be provided an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ:

  II Peter 1:1-11 - Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To
  those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the
  righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ: May grace and peace be
  multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. His divine
  power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness,
  through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence,
  by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that
  through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped
  from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. For this
  very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and
  virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control
  with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with
  brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. For if these
  qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being
  ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For
  whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having
  forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins. Therefore, brothers,
  be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you
  practice these qualities you will never fall. For in this way there will be
  richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord
  and Savior Jesus Christ.

Our debt was cancelled:

  Colossians 2:11-15 - In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision
  made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the
  circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which
  you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God,
  who raised him from the dead. And you, who were dead in your trespasses and
  the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having
  forgiven us all our trespasses, by canceling the record of debt that stood
  against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the
  cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame,
  by triumphing over them in him. (ESV)

We must stop willfully sinning after the big forgiveness and we do this as we
instead turn to serve Jesus, and we continue to confess and repent from sin
thereafter if we commit it:

  II Peter 2:20-22 - For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the
  world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are
  again entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for
  them than the first. For it would have been better for them never to have
  known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the
  holy commandment delivered to them. What the true proverb says has happened
  to them: The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing
  herself, returns to wallow in the mire.

55.13.3. We totally should seek to stop sinning, since we await a place without
sinning

  II Peter 3:13-14 - But according to his promise we are waiting for new
  heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Therefore, beloved,
  since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without
  spot or blemish, and at peace.

  Mark 10:19 - You know the commandments: Do not murder, Do not commit
  adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor
  your father and mother. (ESV)

  1 John 3:4-9 - Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices
  lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away
  sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on
  sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.
  Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is
  righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of
  the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason
  the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born
  of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he
  cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. (ESV)

If Israel had pursued the Mosaic law by faith they would have reached the
righteousness of God.

  Romans 9:30-32 - What shall we say, then? That Gentiles who did not pursue
  righteousness have attained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith;
  but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not
  succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith,
  but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling
  stone,

This is prophetic - the attitude we are called to is the same today as it was
back then:

  Deuteronomy 10:12-15 - And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require
  of you, but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways, to love
  him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul,
  and to keep the commandments and statutes of the Lord, which I am
  commanding you today for your good? Behold, to the Lord your God belong
  heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth with all that is in it. Yet the
  Lord set his heart in love on your fathers and chose their offspring after
  them, you above all peoples, as you are this day.

Circumcise your heart and do not be stubborn:

  Deuteronomy 10:16-17 - Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and
  be no longer stubborn. For the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of
  lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who is not partial and
  takes no bribe.

55.13.4. The 'all time' means we can still approach Jesus for forgiveness for
future sins

  Hebrews 10:12 - But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice
  for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God,

  Hebrews 10:14 - For by a single offering he has perfected for all time
  those who are being sanctified.

  Hebrews 4:16 - Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of
  grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.

55.13.5. If we sin

  1 John 1:9 - If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
  our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. (ESV)

  1 Peter 4:8 - Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love
  covers a multitude of sins. (ESV)

56. Personally judging sin

  John 7:7 - The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify
  about it that its works are evil. (ESV)

  John 7:24 - Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment.
  (ESV)

56.1. We should always discern what is right on our own initiative

  Luke 12:57 - "And why do you not even on your own initiative judge what is
  right?"

56.2. We should be examining, judging, cleaning ourselves up, taking a look in
the mirror first

Judge yourself first (by God's standards) before judging others.

Clean yourself up first before the Lord judges you (in this world) - the Lord
judges a believer while this world to discipline them and clean them up
before final judgement. I know this is talking specifically about taking
communion, but I believe it applies also at the macroscopic level.

  I Corinthians 11:28-32 - But a man must examine himself, and in so doing he
  is to eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks,
  eats and drinks judgment to himself if he does not judge the body rightly.
  For this reason many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep. But
  if we judged ourselves rightly, we would not be judged. But when we are
  judged, we are disciplined by the Lord so that we will not be condemned
  along with the world.

  I Corinthians 4:5 - Therefore do not pronounce judgment before the time,
  before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in
  darkness and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will
  receive his commendation from God. (ESV)

God looks at the heart:

  II Corinthians 5:10-12 - For we must all appear before the judgment seat of
  Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in
  the body, whether good or evil. Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we
  persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I hope it is known
  also to your conscience. We are not commending ourselves to you again but
  giving you cause to boast about us, so that you may be able to answer those
  who boast about outward appearance and not about what is in the heart.

  Hebrews 4:12-13 - For the word of God is living and active, sharper than
  any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of
  joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the
  heart. And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and
  exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. (ESV)

Make yourself ready imminently:

  Matthew 24:42-44 - Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day
  your Lord is coming. But know this, that if the master of the house had
  known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed
  awake and would not have let his house be broken into. Therefore you also
  must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 7:3 - Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but
  do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your
  brother, Let me take the speck out of your eye, when there is the log in
  your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and
  then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.

  II Corinthians 7:1 - Therefore, having these promises, beloved, let us
  cleanse ourselves (G1438 heautou) from all (G3956 pas) defilement of flesh
  (G4561 sarx) and spirit (G4151 pneuma), perfecting holiness in the fear of
  God (G2316 theos).

  Revelation of John 22:14 - Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that
  they may have the right to the tree of life and that they may enter the
  city by the gates. (ESV)

I hold myself accountable to the standard which I subscribe to.

  I Corinthians 9:27 - But I discipline my body and keep it under control,
  lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified.

I try to keep the 10 commandments by faith. I observe the Mosaic law, and try
to keep parts of it by faith, particularly on the topic of sexual morality,
body markings, etc.

56.3. It is necessary sometimes to judge others, but do it properly

We should certainly avoid judging others. But we keep our own selves
accountable to God, not try to keep others accountable to God. Judge for our
own sake. We don't judge who we deem to be our brother/neighbour:

  James 4:11-12 - Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one
  who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against the
  law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the
  law but a judge. There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to
  save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? (ESV)

But Jesus is the ultimate judge and judges His servants:

  II Chronicles 6:22-23 - If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to
  take an oath and comes and swears his oath before your altar in this house,
  then hear from heaven and act and judge your servants, repaying the guilty
  by bringing his conduct on his own head, and vindicating the righteous by
  rewarding him according to his righteousness. (ESV)

Right judgement takes into consideration the weightier matters of the law:
justice and mercy and faithfulness:

  Matthew 23:23 - Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you
  tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of
  the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done,
  without neglecting the others. (ESV)

  John 7:23-24 - If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the
  law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the
  Sabbath I made a man's whole body well? Do not judge by appearances, but
  judge with right judgment. (ESV)

Judging others with the law also makes yourself accountable to the law in the
way you measured it:

  Matthew 7:1 - Judge not, that you be not judged. For with the judgment you
  pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be
  measured to you.

I don't hold others accountable to the same standard that I hold myself to.

For Gentile believers I'm with the Apostles on the following:

  Acts 15:28-29 - For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay
  on you no greater burden than these requirements: that you abstain from
  what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been
  strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these,
  you will do well. Farewell.

But I also would add that one should not bear false-witness or worship idols.

56.3.1. Here we go

  I Corinthians 10:14-20 - Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak
  as to sensible people; judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing
  that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread
  that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because
  there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the
  one bread. Consider the people of Israel: are not those who eat the
  sacrifices participants in the altar? What do I imply then? That food
  offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No, I imply that
  what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want
  you to be participants with demons.

56.4. I repent from being liberal and ever endorsing LGBT or idolatry

At first, to not judge that others wear clothes of the opposite sex seemed
mostly harmless to me, but I feel like endorsing sinful, erroneous things, or
annulling laws is not helpful in liberating people from sin.

56.4.1. Endorsing sinful things endorses people to become enslaved by sin /
stuck in falsehood

Also, I feel as though endorsing it is in a way similar to endorsing that
people commit adultery, in that it gets people stuck in sin, even without the
awareness they are in sin, and makes it harder for people to find God.

I feel like getting a person unstuck from sin is a bit like freeing an animal
in that they are often not aware that they need freeing.

youtube.com: Two men saving the life of a deer

56.4.2. Endorsing sinful behavior welcomes demons

Also, I believe that endorsing sinful behavior or annulling God's law allows
people who do such things to come into one's life and situation - a bit like
putting holes in a boat, or lowering the drawbridge to a castle.

Sin attracts demons:

  Matthew 12:44-45 - Then it says, I will return to my house from which I
  came. And when it comes, it finds the house empty, swept, and put in order.
  Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself,
  and they enter and dwell there, and the last state of that person is worse
  than the first. So also will it be with this evil generation. (ESV)

youtube.com: How To Expel The Enemy | Basics Of Deliverance Pt. 2 | Derek
Prince @time: 15 min 33 sec

It's spiritual, so I think it may actually welcome demons into a person's
life to endorse sinful things.

  Deuteronomy 7:26 - And you shall not bring an abominable thing into your
  house and become devoted to destruction like it. You shall utterly detest
  and abhor it, for it is devoted to destruction. (ESV)

56.4.3. Personal holiness

  I Corinthians 9:27 - But I discipline my body and keep it under control,
  lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified.

Well, I repent of endorsing sinful things, which are explicitly mentioned in
old testament law, such as transvestisim.

I no longer think that in order to be compassionate I must say "I do not
judge." But if someone were to ask me if I think it is sinful, I would say,
"I believe it is sinful."

I pursue personal holiness for myself, and I think deliberate lawbreaking is
wrong, but I stress I am not under the Mosaic law.

I'm under the law of faith in Christ and I believe LGBT and transvestism are
sinful.

  Deuteronomy 22:5 - A woman shall not wear a man's garment, nor shall a man
  put on a woman's cloak, for whoever does these things is an abomination to
  the LORD your God. (ESV)

57. The law of liberty

  James 1:25 - But one who looks intently at the perfect law, the law of
  liberty, and abides by it, not having become a forgetful hearer but an
  effectual doer, this man will be blessed in what he does.

  James 2:11-13 - For he who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not
  murder. If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a
  transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as those who are to be judged
  under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to one who has
  shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.

57.1. The Torah isn't contrary to the promises of God, including justification by
faith

The law doesn't save:

  Galatians 3:21-24 - Is the law then contrary to the promises of God?
  Certainly not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then
  righteousness would indeed be by the law. But the Scripture imprisoned
  everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be
  given to those who believe. Now before faith came, we were held captive
  under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So
  then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be
  justified by faith. (ESV)

The law doesn't save:

  Hebrews 7:19 - (for the law made nothing perfect); but on the other hand, a
  better hope is introduced, through which we draw near to God. (ESV)

57.2. Submitting to God is submitting to Christ

  Psalms 81:11 - But my people did not listen to my voice; Israel would not
  submit to me.

  James 4:7 - Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he
  will flee from you.

  Ephesians 5:23 - For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is
  the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.

  I Corinthians 11:3 - But I want you to understand that the head of every
  man is Christ, the head of a wife is her husband, and the head of Christ is
  God. (ESV)

57.3. The freedom Christ gives us involves obeying Christ

Sermon
youtube.com: Christian Submission - John Piper

Obeying Jesus, even Jesus' commandments, is actually freedom. To disobey
Jesus is to submit to slavery.

  Galatians 5:1 - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore,
  and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. (ESV)

  Galatians 2:4-5 - Yet because of false brothers secretly brought in—who
  slipped in to spy out our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, so that
  they might bring us into slavery— to them we did not yield in submission
  even for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for
  you. (ESV)

This really says it all. We die to the law of Moses but live to God. By the
works of the law no one will be justified, but by faith in Jesus Christ we
seek to be justified:

  Galatians 2:16-19 - yet we know that a person is not justified by works of
  the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in
  Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works
  of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. But if,
  in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners,
  is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not! For if I rebuild what I
  tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. For through the law I died
  to the law, so that I might live to God. (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:24 - Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should
  submit in everything to their husbands. (ESV)

Quote from John Piper
Submission does not mean agreeing with everything your husband says. Now you
can see that right here in verse one she is a Christian [and] he is not a
Christian. That is about as significant a disagreement as you can have they
don't come any more significant there isn't any bigger issue in the world
than whether Jesus is Lord and they don't agree on it. Peter calls this wife
to submission assuming she will not submit to her husband's ideas about the
most important thing in the world, God. So there's lesson number one.
Submission does not mean agreeing with everything your husband thinks. Number
two, submission does not mean leaving your mind or your will at the wedding
altar; It's not the inability to think for yourself as a woman or to will for
yourself.

  Romans 8:21 - that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to
  decay and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 3:17 - Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of
  the Lord is, there is freedom. (ESV)

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (ESV)

Don't think that obeying Jesus is submitting to slavery.

We are bondservants of Christ and it is freedom.

  Romans 1:1 - Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set
  apart for the gospel of God,

57.4. We are no longer 'under' the Mosaic Law but we have freedom as we are led
by the Spirit

  Galatians 2:3-5 - But not even Titus, who was with me, though he was a
  Greek, was compelled to be circumcised. But it was because of the false
  brethren secretly brought in, who had sneaked in to spy out our liberty
  which we have in Christ Jesus, in order to bring us into bondage. But we
  did not yield in subjection to them for even an hour, so that the truth of
  the gospel would remain with you.

If you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the Law. If you are
disobedient to God then you are under the Law.

  Galatians 5:18 - But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the
  Law.

Being led by the spirit, a person would be doing no wrong to their neighbour:

  Romans 13:10 - Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the
  fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

  I Peter 2:16 - Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a
  cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God.

  Galatians 5:1 - For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore,
  and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery.

  Galatians 5:13 - For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use
  your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one
  another.

  II Peter 2:19 - They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves
  of corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved.

57.5. Submitting to God's righteousness involves obeying Jesus because Jesus is
God's righteousness

  Romans 10:3 - For, being ignorant of the righteousness that comes from God,
  and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's
  righteousness.

58. Both God the Father and God the Son raise the dead

Both the Father and the Son give life to whom they will.

  John 5:21 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also
  the Son gives life to whom he will. (ESV)

  John 10:28 - I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no
  one will snatch them out of my hand.

God gives life.

  Deuteronomy 32:39 - See now that I, even I, am he, and there is no god
  beside me; I kill and I make alive; I wound and I heal; and there is none
  that can deliver out of my hand. (ESV)

  John 10:29 - My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and
  no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand.

God the Father and God the Son are one:

  John 10:30 - I and the Father are one.

God the Father raised this child from the dead:

  I Kings 17:21-22 - Then he stretched himself upon the child three times and
  cried to the Lord, O Lord my God, let this child's life come into him
  again. And the Lord listened to the voice of Elijah. And the life of the
  child came into him again, and he revived.

God the Father raised this child from the dead too:

  2 Kings 4:32-35 - When Elisha came into the house, he saw the child lying
  dead on his bed. So he went in and shut the door behind the two of them and
  prayed to the LORD. Then he went up and lay on the child, putting his mouth
  on his mouth, his eyes on his eyes, and his hands on his hands. And as he
  stretched himself upon him, the flesh of the child became warm. Then he got
  up again and walked once back and forth in the house, and went up and
  stretched himself upon him. The child sneezed seven times, and the child
  opened his eyes. (ESV)

God the Father raised Jesus from the dead:

  Romans 8:11 - If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in
  you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your
  mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. (ESV)

God gave authority to Jesus to raise the dead:

  John 17:2 - since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give
  eternal life to all whom you have given him. (ESV)

Jesus raises people from the dead:

  John 11:25 - Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever
  believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, (ESV)

  Luke 7:13-15 - And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said
  to her, Do not weep. Then he came up and touched the bier, and the bearers
  stood still. And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. And the dead man
  sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother.

People recognised Jesus as a great prophet like Elijah or Elisha

  Luke 7:16 - Fear seized them all, and they glorified God, saying, A great
  prophet has arisen among us! and God has visited his people!

Jesus was doing the works of Father God:

  John 10:37-38 - If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not
  believe me; but if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe
  the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I
  am in the Father.

Who can question it?

  Acts 26:8 - Why is it thought incredible by any of you that God raises the
  dead? (ESV)

58.1. Leaving the tomb / spiritual prison (Sheol/Hades / the bad place in
Sheol/Hades) which was a result of disobedience

  Romans 6:8-9 - Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will
  also live with him. We know that Christ being raised from the dead will
  never die again; death no longer has dominion over him.

Jesus as a life-giving spirit proclaimed to the spirits in prison
(Sheol/Hades):

  John 5:25 - Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and now is, when
  the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will
  live. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:6 - For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are
  dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live
  in the spirit the way God does. (ESV)

Baptism is an appeal to God for a good conscience - It's an appeal to God but
not strictly required to be saved. It is an appeal to God for a good
conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ.

We appeal to God for a good conscience with Him, asking God to partake in the
resurrection of Jesus Christ, God circumcises our heart, and we are buried
with Jesus in His death, our old man dies, and we walk in the newness of life
- rise with Him in resurrection through faith in the powerful working of God:

  I Peter 3:21-22 - Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as
  a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good
  conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into
  heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and
  powers having been subjected to him. (ESV)

  Colossians 2:11-12 - In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision
  made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the
  circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which
  you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God,
  who raised him from the dead. (ESV)

  Romans 6:4 - We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in
  order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the
  Father, we too might walk in newness of life. (ESV)

I definitely believe that "believer's baptism" is the right way to perform
baptism:

  Isaiah 7:14-16 - Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold,
  the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
  He shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and
  choose the good. For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose
  the good, the land whose two kings you dread will be deserted. (ESV)

  Luke 2:48-52 - And when his parents saw him, they were astonished. And his
  mother said to him, Son, why have you treated us so? Behold, your father
  and I have been searching for you in great distress. And he said to them,
  Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's
  house? And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them. And he
  went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And
  his mother treasured up all these things in her heart. And Jesus increased
  in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. (ESV)

  Mark 10:37-40 - And they said to him, Grant us to sit, one at your right
  hand and one at your left, in your glory. Jesus said to them, You do not
  know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to
  be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized? And they said to
  him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup that I drink you will
  drink, and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you will be baptized,
  but to sit at my right hand or at my left is not mine to grant, but it is
  for those for whom it has been prepared. (ESV)

Baptism does save, but I believe it must be coupled with belief, and also
trust, and I think that obedience comes from trust:

  I Peter 3:18-21 - For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for
  the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the
  flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the
  spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience
  waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a
  few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism,
  which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the
  body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the
  resurrection of Jesus Christ,

  Acts 19:4 - And Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of repentance,
  telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that
  is, Jesus. (ESV)

Fear of God (wanting to please God doing His will), wanting a good conscience
with God, and wanting to change from doing dead works to perform deeds which
glorify Jesus obedient to His commandments - deeds in keeping with repentance
- being zealous for good deeds, love issuing from a good conscience - and
receiving Jesus' Holy Spirit to empower this resurrection life - this is the
mind set we should have going into baptism:

  I Peter 3:21 - Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a
  removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good
  conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, (ESV)

I believe a person must believe, and not just be baptised:

  Acts 19:1-6 - And it happened that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul
  passed through the inland country and came to Ephesus. There he found some
  disciples. And he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you
  believed? And they said, No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy
  Spirit. And he said, Into what then were you baptized? They said, Into
  John's baptism. And Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of
  repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after
  him, that is, Jesus. On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the
  Lord Jesus. And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came
  on them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying. (ESV)

This sounds interesting:

  John 5:28-29 - Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who
  are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, those who have done good
  to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the
  resurrection of judgment.

It's totally worth following Jesus, doing good and proclaiming the gospel
after getting born-again - following Jesus, even faithfully stopping sin, is
the correct response, for if being born-again is dying with Christ, and being
given life by the life giving Spirit of Jesus, we are partaking in the death
and resurrection of Jesus, where Jesus had actually suffered for sins, the
righteous for the unrighteous, so we too should continue living in a way that
is turning away from sin.

  Galatians 6:7-8 - Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one
  sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will
  from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will
  from the Spirit reap eternal life. (ESV)

Spiritually died with Christ:

  Colossians 2:20 - If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits of the
  world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit to
  regulations—

  Colossians 3:3 - For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in
  God. (ESV)

Spiritually raised with Christ:

  Colossians 3:1 - If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things
  that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.

OK, so spiritually resurrected and raised. Now we wait for the resurrection
of the body.

Things make a bit more sense now:

  Matthew 19:16-26 - And behold, a man came up to him, saying, Teacher, what
  good deed must I do to have eternal life? And he said to him, Why do you
  ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would
  enter life, keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus
  said, You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not
  steal, You shall not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother, and,
  You shall love your neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All
  these I have kept. What do I still lack? Jesus said to him, If you would be
  perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have
  treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. When the young man heard this he
  went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his
  disciples, Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person
  enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to
  go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom
  of God. When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished,
  saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With man
  this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.

Jesus is the Saviour of the world.

  I John 4:14 - And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son
  to be the Savior of the world.

  John 1:17 - For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came
  through Jesus Christ. (ESV)

  John 12:46-48 - I have come into the world as light, so that whoever
  believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and
  does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the
  world but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my
  words has a judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last
  day. (ESV)

  Isaiah 43:10-11 - You are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and my servant
  whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I
  am he. Before me no god was formed, nor shall there be any after me. I, I
  am the Lord, and besides me there is no savior.

God saves through Jesus.

  Jude 1:25 - to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be
  glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, before all time and now and
  forever. Amen.

  Titus 1:1-3 - Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for
  the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth,
  which accords with godliness, in hope of eternal life, which God, who never
  lies, promised before the ages began and at the proper time manifested in
  his word through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the
  command of God our Savior;

  John 5:43 - I have come in my Father's name, and you do not receive me. If
  another comes in his own name, you will receive him.

  John 10:25 - Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The
  works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me,

  Titus 3:4-7 - But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior
  appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness,
  but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal
  of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ
  our Savior, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs
  according to the hope of eternal life.

  I Peter 3:19 - in which also He went and made proclamation to the spirits
  now in prison,

  Romans 8:10 - If Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin,
  yet the spirit is alive because of righteousness.

That was a total gift. Thanks Jesus!

So in this life we can know that we will partake in the resurrection at the
second coming.

59. The resurrection at the second coming

  Hebrews 9:27-28 - And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and
  after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the
  sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save
  those who are eagerly waiting for him.

59.1. So don't be in Adam, but be in Christ, because all in Christ will be made
alive, but all in Adam will perish

 1. Christ the firstfruits, then
 2. at his coming those who belong to Christ.

  I Corinthians 15:20-26 - But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead,
  the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man came
  death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam
  all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. But each in his own
  order: Christ the firstfruits, then at his coming those who belong to
  Christ. Then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father
  after destroying every rule and every authority and power. For he must
  reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be
  destroyed is death.

59.2. What it looks like

Our heavenly inheritance is imperishable!

  1 Peter 1:4 - to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and
  unfading, kept in heaven for you, (ESV)

59.2.1. The fiery trial and the rapture being contemporaneous

So long as I'm in the fiery trial I am currently in, will expect rapture as
though it were imminent. Come, Lord Jesus!

  Revelation of John 22:20 - He who testifies to these things says, Surely I
  am coming soon. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus! (ESV)

John Piper's explanation of the rapture I affirm:

• youtube.com: What Is the Rapture?

I'm a total believer in the rapture. In fact, I believe that a person can be
raptured by faith. I really wouldn't mind being raptured today <2024-07-18
Thu>. The world lost its luster for me, and that is a good thing actually:

  Hebrews 11:5 - By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death,
  and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he
  was commended as having pleased God. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 3:10 - Because you have kept my word about patient
  endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the
  whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:12 - Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it
  comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to
  you. (ESV)

Relief for believers and affliction for the disbelievers as one coming:

  II Thessalonians 1:6-8 - since indeed God considers it just to repay with
  affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are
  afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven
  with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who
  do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus.
  (ESV)

  II Thessalonians 2:1-3 - Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ
  and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be
  quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or
  a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has
  come. Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come, unless
  the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son
  of destruction, (ESV)

Rapture:

  I Thessalonians 4:16-17 - For the Lord himself will descend from heaven
  with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound
  of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who
  are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds
  to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 22:20 - He who testifies to these things says, Surely I
  am coming soon. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus! (ESV)

Amen! I'm waiting for that day. Also, I believe God can take me up any time
if it's His will!

All things are possible for those who trust in God, trust in Jesus, trust
God, trust the Only True God:

  Mark 9:23 - And Jesus said to him, If you can! All things are possible for
  one who believes. (ESV)

59.2.2. The resurrection of the just

  Luke 14:12-14 - He said also to the man who had invited him, When you give
  a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your
  relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and you be
  repaid. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame,
  the blind, and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. You will
  be repaid at the resurrection of the just. (ESV)

59.2.3. The natural first, then the spiritual

We may die a natural death in this life but be raised at the second coming
with an incorruptible body.

  I Corinthians 15:42-48 - So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What
  is sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable. It is sown in
  dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in
  power. It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. If there
  is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. Thus it is written, The
  first man Adam became a living being; the last Adam became a life-giving
  spirit. But it is not the spiritual that is first but the natural, and then
  the spiritual. The first man was from the earth, a man of dust; the second
  man is from heaven. As was the man of dust, so also are those who are of
  the dust, and as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven.

Jesus can subject all things to Himself. By that power, Jesus will transform
our lowly body to be like His glorious body:

  Philippians 3:20-21 - But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we
  await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to
  be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject
  all things to himself. (ESV)

  1 Corinthians 15:49 - Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust,
  we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven. (ESV)

 1. This - we are made like the man of heaven

  I Corinthians 15:49 - Just as we have borne the image of the man of
  dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven.

AMEN!!

And then it's possible to inherit the imperishable:

  I Corinthians 15:50 - I tell you this, brothers: flesh and blood cannot
  inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the
  imperishable.

  I Corinthians 15:51-54 - Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all
  sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an
  eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will
  be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable
  body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on
  immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the
  mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is
  written: Death is swallowed up in victory. (ESV)

 2. The mortal puts on immortality (at the resurrection)

  I Corinthians 15:53 - For this perishable body must put on the
  imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. When the
  perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on
  immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: Death
  is swallowed up in victory.

Because truth is truth, it is imperishable. Our souls are purified as we
obey the Truth - obey the Word of God - obey Jesus. Our souls come out of
darkness and into imperishable truth. The good news is the delivered
account of everything Jesus said and did, and doesn't contradict. Jesus
doesn't contradict Himself, so we can trust the word delivered through
Jesus and the apostles. The most important parts have been recorded, and
this is the good news, the gospel:

  I Peter 1:22-25 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the
  truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a
  pure heart, since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but
  of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God; for All
  flesh is like grass and all its glory like the flower of grass. The
  grass withers, and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains
  forever. And this word is the good news that was preached to you. (ESV)

  Isaiah 25:8 - He will swallow up death forever; and the Lord God will
  wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will
  take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken.

 3. Victory over sin and death through Jesus

Sinning believers will still experience tribulation. Believers who are
unrepentant from sin are probably not true trusters of Jesus or are
rebellious even in face of hearing the gospel and maybe even experience
the literal place Hades (the bad part). I could be wrong, but I don't
want to test God. It's a bad idea to put Christ to the test. Jesus is the
Judge.

Peter's confession is absolutely True and is an imperishable truth! We
want to be in the truth, so we believe the truth.

  Matthew 16:15-19 - He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon
  Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus
  answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has
  not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell
  you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the
  gates of hell (G86 hadés) shall not prevail against it. I will give you
  the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall
  be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in
  heaven. (ESV)

youtube.com: Christ Appeared for Our Sake @time: 11 min 21 sec

I think the resurrection of Jesus does two things: One, it vindicates the
value of the ransom. When God looked down on the bloodshedding of his
Son, which he himself ordained and caused, and He looked at it and Jesus
said, "It is finished.", the Father said, "It is finished." Then He
raised him from the dead to say to all the world, "It was finished. It is
all satisfying and all valuable and all sufficient. No more needs to be
paid. Once for all, it is done."

I think that's what the resurrection is like - a big exclamation point at
the end of Christ's blood is enough. Boof! Exclamation point. Up out of
the grave! And the second thing it does is say, "Death is defeated."
Death is defeated.

So that, this afternoon, when sin comes to you, and this is the way he
comes, and he says, "You know, life is short, my pleasures are large, and
then you die. Maximize. Eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow you die."
To which, you, now after this morning's message, will say, " And the day
after that, I will live again, forever, and therefore you're a liar!
You're a liar! You're telling me that this life is all I've got, and I
should follow you because you can maximize it for me? Well, I'll tell you
what I'm going to rise from the dead with Jesus and then I live 10
million million Ages of Ages, and if I were to choose your way now and go
to hell rather than Jesus' way and go to heaven I would be an absolute
fool. Out of here, sin! That's the way you argue with sin. It's the only
way you can defeat sin. Righteousness is not automatic, folks. It is won
by warfare with Truth from the Bible.

Because truth is truth, it is imperishable. Our souls are purified as we
obey the Truth - obey the Word of God - obey Jesus. Our souls come out of
darkness and into imperishable truth. The good news is the delivered
account of everything Jesus said and did, and doesn't contradict. Jesus
doesn't contradict Himself, so we can trust the word delivered through
Jesus and the apostles. The most important parts have been recorded, and
this is the good news, the gospel:

  I Peter 1:22-25 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the
  truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a
  pure heart, since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but
  of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God; for All
  flesh is like grass and all its glory like the flower of grass. The
  grass withers, and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains
  forever. And this word is the good news that was preached to you. (ESV)

The church is the pillar and support of the truth:

  I Timothy 3:14-15 - I am writing these things to you, hoping to come to
  you soon, but in case I am delayed, I write so that you will know how
  one ought to conduct himself in the household of God, which is the
  church of the living God, the pillar and support of the truth. (LSB)

youtube.com: Hope and the Fruit of Love @time: 5 min 10 sec

The Word is not perishable. What's the point? It lasts and lasts, well
what's the point of that? Hope! If the word of God by which you were born
again dies, you die. Jesus said, "We live by every word that comes out of
the mouth of God."

If those words someday die, if they cease to be true, if they cease to
have power, we're dead. If they live forever, if those words go on, and
they're imperishable, we carried by them, standing on them are
imperishing.

  II John 1:1-2 - The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I
  love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth, because
  of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever:

  Titus 1:1-3 - Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ,
  for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the
  truth, which accords with godliness, in hope of eternal life, which
  God, who never lies, promised before the ages began and at the proper
  time manifested in his word through the preaching with which I have
  been entrusted by the command of God our Savior;

We will be raised imperishable, just as the truth is imperishable:

  I Corinthians 15:51-58 - Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all
  sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an
  eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will
  be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable
  body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on
  immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the
  mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is
  written: Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your
  victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and
  the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us the
  victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brothers,
  be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord,
  knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. (ESV)

59.2.4. No lust/corruption in heaven. The divine nature does not have
lust/corruption

  II Peter 1:3-4 - seeing that His divine power has granted to us everything
  pertaining to life and godliness, through the true knowledge of Him who
  called us by His own glory and excellence. For by these He has granted to
  us His precious and magnificent promises, so that by them you may become
  partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in
  the world by lust. (NASB)

  I Thessalonians 4:5 - not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do
  not know God;

I feel like people often get this backwards, although I do believe that by
Jesus' stripes we are healed, even from things such as addictions (Jesus set
me free from vaping, for example), I think that, as Tim Keller puts it, "Not
all addiction is sin but all sin is addiction.

Quote by Tim Keller
Sin is a power and the things you crave become your slave masters, because in
your heart those things burn with this idea, "if only". Everything would be
fine if only that. And that creates a suction in your life, like a fire. That
says, "I've got to have more approval, I've got to have more this, I've got
to have a better spouse, I've got to have this. That's the reason I'm
unhappy." But the more you throw in there the more it wants. Sin enslaves.
We're all addicts. Not all addiction is sin but all sin is addiction.

Sinful addictions, the lusts of the world, the pride of life, etc:

  II Peter 2:19-21 - They promise them freedom, but they themselves are
  slaves of corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is
  enslaved. For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world
  through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again
  entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for them
  than the first. For it would have been better for them never to have known
  the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the holy
  commandment delivered to them.

  John 8:34 - Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who
  commits sin is the slave of sin.

We must be holy.

  Ephesians 1:4 - even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the
  world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love

  I Peter 1:15-16 - but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all
  your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy.

  Revelation of John 22:11 - Let the evildoer still do evil, and the filthy
  still be filthy, and the righteous still do right, and the holy still be
  holy.

  Ephesians 5:27 - so that he might present the church to himself in
  splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy
  and without blemish.

These angels were corrupted:

  Genesis 6:2 - that the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were
  beautiful; and they took wives for themselves, whomever they chose.

59.2.5. Incorruptible inheritance

God is incorruptible:

  Romans 1:23 - and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image
  in the form of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and
  crawling creatures.

We will receive an incorruptible body as Jesus' resurrection body does not
corrupt:

  Acts 13:36-37 - For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his
  own generation, fell asleep and was laid with his fathers and saw
  corruption, but he whom God raised up did not see corruption.

Incorruptible love is something we can have in this life:

  Ephesians 6:24 - Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ
  with incorruptible love.

  I Corinthians 13:8 - Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass
  away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away.

An imperishable reward:

  I Corinthians 9:25 - Everyone who competes in the games exercises
  self-control in all things. They then do it to receive a perishable wreath,
  but we an imperishable.

  I Peter 1:4 - to obtain an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled
  and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you,

The Holy Spirit dwelling within us guarantees our imperishable inheritance:

  II Timothy 1:14 - By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good
  deposit entrusted to you.

  I Peter 1:23 - for you have been born again not of seed which is perishable
  but imperishable, that is, through the living and enduring word of God.

In believing in Jesus, we are guaranteed an inheritance in heaven:

  Ephesians 1:13,14 - In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the
  gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the
  promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we
  acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. (ESV)

The inheritance is in heaven:

  I Peter 1:4 - to obtain an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled
  and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you, (ESV)

We work for the Lord while believing in Jesus:

  Colossians 3:23-25 - Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and
  not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as
  your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. For the wrongdoer will be
  paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality. (ESV)

Even our bodies will be raised imperishable:

  I Corinthians 15:52 - in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last
  trumpet; for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised
  imperishable, and we will be changed.

60. We're not called to agree with sinners but to show them the light

60.1. Jesus' company with sinners was to bring them to repentance, and from
darkness to light

  Mark 2:17 - And when Jesus heard it, he said to them, Those who are well
  have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the
  righteous, but sinners. (ESV)

  Luke 15:2 - And the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, This man
  receives sinners and eats with them. (ESV)

  Matthew 9:10-13 - And as Jesus reclined at table in the house, behold, many
  tax collectors and sinners came and were reclining with Jesus and his
  disciples. And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, Why
  does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? But when he heard
  it, he said, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who
  are sick. Go and learn what this means, I desire mercy, and not sacrifice.
  For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. (ESV)

60.2. We must disagree with evil, and show people the light of the Gospel

  Proverbs 4:14-15 - Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in
  the way of the evil. Avoid it; do not go on it; turn away from it and pass
  on. (ESV)

  Psalms 1:1-4 - Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the
  wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers;
  but his delight is in the law of the LORD, and on his law he meditates day
  and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its
  fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he
  prospers. The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives
  away. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:3-4 - The time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles
  want to do, living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking
  parties, and lawless idolatry. With respect to this they are surprised when
  you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you;
  (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:11 - Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but
  instead expose them. (ESV)

60.2.1. Friendship with the world is emnity to God

Article
Why is Friendship with the World Enmity with God? {James 4:4} -
InspiredWalk.com

  James 4:4 - You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the
  world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the
  world makes himself an enemy of God. (ESV)

  Romans 12:2 - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
  renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of
  God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 5:10 - not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world,
  or the greedy and swindlers, or idolaters, since then you would need to go
  out of the world. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 4:4 - In their case the god of this world has blinded the
  minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel
  of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. (ESV)

  John 15:18 - If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it
  hated you. (ESV)

  John 15:19 - If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own;
  but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world,
  therefore the world hates you. (ESV)

60.2.2. We must desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus and that goes
against the pattern of the world

  II Timothy 3:12 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, (ESV)

61. Commandments of God

61.1. Commandments of Father God in the New Testament:

  Romans 16:26 - but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic
  writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of
  the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith — (ESV)

Listen to Jesus and believe Jesus is God's Son:

  Mark 9:7 - And a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the
  cloud, This is my beloved Son; listen to him. (ESV)

  Luke 9:35 - And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my Son, my
  Chosen One; listen to him! (ESV)

  Acts 3:22 - Moses said, The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like
  me from your brothers. You shall listen to him in whatever he tells you.
  (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 18:15-19 - The LORD your God will raise up for you a prophet
  like me from among you, from your brothers—it is to him you shall listen—
  just as you desired of the LORD your God at Horeb on the day of the
  assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God
  or see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the LORD said to me, They
  are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like
  you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he
  shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to
  my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him.
  (ESV)

Walk in the truth, love one another and do not deny that Jesus Christ has
come in the flesh:

  II John 1:4-9 - I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in
  the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father. And now I ask you, dear
  lady—not as though I were writing you a new commandment, but the one we
  have had from the beginning—that we love one another. And this is love,
  that we walk according to his commandments; this is the commandment, just
  as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it. For
  many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the
  coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the
  antichrist. Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have worked
  for, but may win a full reward. Everyone who goes on ahead and does not
  abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the
  teaching has both the Father and the Son. (ESV)

61.2. Commandments of Jesus (which are from God)

The words Jesus Christ spoke were altogether a commandment of eternal life
which Father God had given Jesus to speak:

  John 12:49-50 - For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father
  who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say and what to
  speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say,
  therefore, I say as the Father has told me. (ESV)

Have faith in God:

  Mark 11:22 - And Jesus answered them, Have (G2192 echo) faith (G4102
  pistis) in God (G2316 theos).

Have faith in God and have faith in Jesus:

  John 14:1 - “Do not let your heart be troubled; believe (G4100 pisteuo) in
  God, believe (G4100 pisteuo) also in Me.

Pisteuo means to trust. Trust in God, trust also in God's Son Jesus:

  Romans 4:5 - And to the one who does not work but trusts (G4100 pisteuo)
  him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, (ESV)

Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near:

  Matthew 3:2 - Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. (ESV)

Follow the 10 commandments from the heart in truth as far as to not idolize
or covet your material possessions, leave behind your old life and follow Him
(Jesus).

  Luke 18:18-22 - And a ruler asked him, Good Teacher, what must I do to
  inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No
  one is good except God alone. You know the commandments: Do not commit
  adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor
  your father and mother. And he said, All these I have kept from my youth.
  When Jesus heard this, he said to him, One thing you still lack. Sell all
  that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in
  heaven; and come, follow me. (ESV)

Have faith in God to help you achieve this:

  Luke 18:26-27 - Those who heard it said, Then who can be saved? But he
  said, What is impossible with men is possible with God. (ESV)

Come and follow Jesus and allow Him to make you into a fisher of men:

  Matthew 4:19 - And he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers
  of men. (ESV)

Rejoice when you're persecuted in Jesus' name:

  Matthew 5:11-13 - Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you
  and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and
  be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the
  prophets who were before you. You are the salt of the earth, but if salt
  has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer
  good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.
  (ESV)

Let your light shine before all people:

  Matthew 5:16 - In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that
  they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 8:1-2 - We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of
  God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia, for in a severe
  test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have
  overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. (ESV)

Be reconciled to one another:

  Matthew 5:23-24 - So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there
  remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there
  before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come
  and offer your gift. (ESV)

Take sin very seriously:

  Matthew 5:29-30 - If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and
  throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that
  your whole body be thrown into hell (1067. geenna). And if your right hand
  causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you
  lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. (ESV)

Follow the commandments from the heart, and in truth, accountable to God:

  Matthew 5:32 - But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except
  on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery. And whoever
  marries a divorced woman commits adultery. (ESV)

Turn the other cheek:

  Matthew 5:39 - But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But if
  anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. (ESV)

  James 5:6 - You have condemned; you have murdered the righteous person. He
  does not resist you. (ESV)

Go above and beyond. Forgive:

  Matthew 5:40-42 - And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him
  have your cloak as well. And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with
  him two miles. Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one
  who would borrow from you. (ESV)

Love your enemies as well as your friends. Be like Your Heavenly Father. Be
perfect. Love (25. agapaó) your enemies means "treasuring your enemies" and
looks like not repaying evil for evil. It sometimes looks like refusing to do
evil and instead doing good to those who do you harm, taking the initiative
in overcoming evil with good:

  Matthew 5:43-48 - You have heard that it was said, You shall love your
  neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray
  for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is
  in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends
  rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you,
  what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if
  you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not
  even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect, as your
  heavenly Father is perfect. (ESV)

  Proverbs 25:21-22 - If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if
  he is thirsty, give him water to drink, for you will heap burning coals on
  his head, and the LORD will reward you. (ESV)

Be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect:

  Matthew 5:48 - You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is
  perfect. (ESV)

Be accountable to God. Do not seek reward from others but from God. Focus on
spiritual disciplines for the right reasons.

  Matthew 6:1-18 - Beware of practicing your righteousness before other
  people in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from
  your Father who is in heaven. Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no
  trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the
  streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have
  received their reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left
  hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in
  secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you
  pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love to stand and pray
  in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by
  others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you
  pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in
  secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you
  pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that
  they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them, for your
  Father knows what you need before you ask him. Pray then like this: Our
  Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be
  done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and
  forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not
  into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For if you forgive others their
  trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you, but if you do not
  forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your
  trespasses. And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for
  they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others. Truly,
  I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you fast, anoint
  your head and wash your face, that your fasting may not be seen by others
  but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret
  will reward you. (ESV)

Have a relationship with God:

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

I'm pretty convinced that what Jesus means by the following is that by giving
up earthly treasure in the pursuit of Jesus, heavenly treasure is acquired.
I'd say it's likely that the heavenly treasure is simply helping those
people. So selling what a person possesses and giving to those in need,
though apart from faith in Jesus isn't a "requirement for eternal life", it
is a fast track to serving Jesus and getting our heart in heaven and leaning
on Jesus, so doing as Jesus said in obedient faith is already starting to
follow Jesus and store up heavenly treasure. Seek heavenly reward, not
earthly reward. Have a heart seeking reward from God and not from man. Have
your heart in heaven, not in earth. We give up our earthly treasure and help
other people with it and this becomes heavenly treasure, and we then go after
Jesus as our Pearl of Great Price:

  Matthew 6:19-21 - Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where
  moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for
  yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and
  where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there
  your heart will be also. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

Seek God's kingdom and His righteousness first of all:

  Matthew 6:33 - But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and
  all these things will be added to you. (ESV)

Do not worry about tomorrow:

  Matthew 6:34 - Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow
  will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble.
  (ESV)

Use right judgment. We should be examining, judging, cleaning ourselves up,
taking a look in the mirror first (by God's standards) before judging others:

  Matthew 7:1-5 - Judge not, that you be not judged. For with the judgment
  you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be
  measured to you. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye,
  but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to
  your brother, Let me take the speck out of your eye, when there is the log
  in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and
  then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.
  (ESV)

  Romans 2:1 - Therefore you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who
  judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself, because
  you, the judge, practice the very same things. (ESV)

  James 4:11-12 - Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one
  who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against the
  law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the
  law but a judge. There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to
  save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? (ESV)

  I Corinthians 4:3 - But with me it is a very small thing that I should be
  judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself.
  (ESV)

Practice discretion:

  Matthew 7:6 - Do not give dogs what is holy, and do not throw your pearls
  before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you. (ESV)

Ask, seek, and knock:

  Matthew 7:7-8 - Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find;
  knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and
  the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. (ESV)

Ask God for your needs, which includes asking God for the Holy Spirit:

  Luke 11:1-11 - Now Jesus was praying in a certain place, and when he
  finished, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John
  taught his disciples. And he said to them, When you pray, say: Father,
  hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread,
  and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted
  to us. And lead us not into temptation. And he said to them, Which of you
  who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me
  three loaves, for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have
  nothing to set before him; and he will answer from within, Do not bother
  me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot get
  up and give you anything? I tell you, though he will not get up and give
  him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his impudence he will
  rise and give him whatever he needs. And I tell you, ask, and it will be
  given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
  For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one
  who knocks it will be opened. What father among you, if his son asks for a
  fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent; (ESV)

  Luke 11:13 - If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your
  children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to
  those who ask him! (ESV)

Treat others as you would like to be treated:

  Matthew 7:12 - So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to
  them, for this is the Law and the Prophets. (ESV)

Choose the narrow path to life:

  Matthew 7:13-14 - Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the
  way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.
  For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie. narrow, small) and the way is hard
  (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when circumstances "rub us the wrong way" that
  make us feel confined (hemmed in); restricted to a "narrow" place) that
  leads to life, and those who find it are few. (ESV)

Look out for false prophets:

  Matthew 7:15-20 - Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's
  clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their
  fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? So,
  every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit.
  A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good
  fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into
  the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits. (ESV)

Pray for kingdom laborers. Pray that God sends out kingdom laborers:

  Matthew 9:37-38 - Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful,
  but the laborers are few; therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the
  harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. (ESV)

Be on your guard. Jesus sends us out to be like scapegoats. Be wise and
remain blameless:

  Matthew 10:16-17 - Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of
  wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves. Beware of men, for
  they will deliver you over to courts and flog you in their synagogues,
  (ESV)

Do not fear persecutors. Fear God. But put your trust in God because He takes
care of those who fear Him. Speak the truth:

  Matthew 10:26-31 - So have no fear of them, for nothing is covered that
  will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. What I tell you in
  the dark, say in the light, and what you hear whispered, proclaim on the
  housetops. And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the
  soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not
  two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground
  apart from your Father. But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
  Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows. (ESV)

Being subject to governing authorities does not mean behaving like them, but
rather is about being blameless before God:

  Romans 13:1 - Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For
  there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been
  instituted by God. (ESV)

Practice righteousness, but do so to please God and be accountable to God who
sees in secret. Don't feel any need to prove yourself to others:

  Matthew 23:3 - so practice and observe whatever they tell you—but not what
  they do. For they preach, but do not practice. (ESV)

Our kingdom is not of this world. We have a heavenly, not earthly
perspective. Our treasure is in heaven. Our lives belong to God and we owe
Him our faithfulness and service and we can't compromise our duties to God:

  John 18:36 - Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom
  were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not
  be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world. (ESV)

Our hearts and minds belong to God and noone else. Noone has the right to
force us to obey unrighteousness. We can't let the devil steal from us our
joy of God, or steal our good conscience with God. But if the secular
world/kingdoms of this world lays claim to earthly things, we just allow them
to have it, knowing we have greater treasure, heavenly reward:

  Mark 12:17 - Jesus said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are
  Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marveled at him.
  (ESV)

  John 18:36 - Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom
  were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not
  be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:40 - And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him
  have your cloak as well. (ESV)

  Mark 15:14 - And Pilate said to them, Why, what evil has he done? But they
  shouted all the more, Crucify him. (ESV)

Take Jesus' yoke upon yourself:

  Matthew 11:28-30 - Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I
  will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am
  gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my
  yoke is easy, and my burden is light. (ESV)

Do not despise the little ones:

  Matthew 18:10 - See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I
  tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who
  is in heaven. (ESV)

How to deal with offenders:

  Matthew 18:15-17 - If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his
  fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained
  your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with
  you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three
  witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if
  he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and
  a tax collector. (ESV)

Forgive your family in Christ extremely generously / almost without limits:

  Matthew 18:21-22 - Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will
  my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times? Jesus
  said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven.
  (ESV)

Lead through service:

  Matthew 20:25-28 - But Jesus called them to him and said, You know that the
  rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise
  authority over them. It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be
  great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you
  must be your slave, even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to
  serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. (ESV)

Love God with all your heart, mind, and soul:

  Matthew 22:37-38 - And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God
  with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is
  the great and first commandment. (ESV)

Love your neighbor as yourself - fulfill the requirement of the law:

  Matthew 22:39 - And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as
  yourself. (ESV)

Stay alert and keep watch:

  Matthew 24:42-44 - Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day
  your Lord is coming. But know this, that if the master of the house had
  known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed
  awake and would not have let his house be broken into. Therefore you also
  must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.
  (ESV)

Make disciples of all the nations, teaching them to follow/obey Jesus:

  Matthew 28:18-20 - And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven
  and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all
  nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the
  Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe (G5083 tereo) all that I have
  commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 28:20 - and teaching them to obey (G5083 tereo) all that I have
  commanded you. And surely I am with you always, even to the end of the
  age.” (BSB)

The word tereo means (to keep, observe, obey, follow). Commandments are for
obeying. That's all they are for. This observance means to remember and
practice. Nowhere in the Bible does it teach to disobey God:

  Matthew 28:20 - teaching them to follow all that I commanded you; and
  behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.” (NASB2020)

Don't teach against needing to do Jesus' commandments. To do so is to teach
people to not be a part of Jesus' family. It's great how God has given us
Hebrew and Greek to make this unambiguous:

  Deuteronomy 5:27 - Go near and hear all that the LORD our God will say and
  speak to us all that the LORD our God will speak to you, and we will hear
  and do it. (ESV)

  Luke 8:21 - But he answered them, My mother and my brothers are those who
  hear the word of God and do it. (ESV)

Deny yourself daily, and follow Jesus:

  Luke 9:23-24 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him
  deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would
  save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will
  save it. (ESV)

Do not covet your possessions:

  Luke 12:15 - And he said to them, Take care, and be on your guard against
  all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his
  possessions. (ESV)

Give to those who can't reciprocate:

  Luke 14:12-14 - He said also to the man who had invited him, When you give
  a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your
  relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and you be
  repaid. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame,
  the blind, and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. You will
  be repaid at the resurrection of the just. (ESV)

You must be born again:

  John 3:7 - Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born again. (ESV)

If you love Jesus, keep His commandments. The one who keeps Jesus'
commandments is the one who loves Jesus:

  John 14:15 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. (ESV)

  John 14:21 - Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves
  me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and
  manifest myself to him. (ESV)

Those who have testimony of Jesus should preach testify that he is the one
appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead:

  Acts 10:41-44 - not to all the people but to us who had been chosen by God
  as witnesses, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. And
  he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one
  appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead. To him all the
  prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives
  forgiveness of sins through his name. While Peter was still saying these
  things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word. (ESV)

  Acts 13:47 - For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, I have made you a
  light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the
  earth.

Those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel:

  I Corinthians 9:14 - In the same way, the Lord commanded that those who
  proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel.

61.3. Precepts of Paul

• Pursue godliness with contentment but not without contentment. Pursue
personal righteousness
• righteousness,
• godliness,
• faith,
• love,
• steadfastness,
• gentleness.

  I Timothy 6:3-11 - If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not
  agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that
  accords with godliness, he is puffed up with conceit and understands
  nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about
  words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, and
  constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the
  truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain. Now there is great gain
  in godliness with contentment, for we brought nothing into the world, and
  we cannot take anything out of the world. But if we have food and clothing,
  with these we will be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into
  temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that
  plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of
  all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away
  from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. But as for you, O
  man of God, flee these things. Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith,
  love, steadfastness, gentleness. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:24 - Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his
  neighbor. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:19-21 - What do I imply then? That food offered to idols
  is anything, or that an idol is anything? No, I imply that what pagans
  sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be
  participants with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup
  of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of
  demons. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 7:10-17 - To the married I give this charge (not I, but the
  Lord): the wife should not separate from her husband (but if she does, she
  should remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband), and the
  husband should not divorce his wife. To the rest I say (I, not the Lord)
  that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents to
  live with him, he should not divorce her. If any woman has a husband who is
  an unbeliever, and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce
  him. For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the
  unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise your
  children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy. But if the
  unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases the brother or
  sister is not enslaved. God has called you to peace. Wife, how do you know
  whether you will save your husband? Husband, how do you know whether you
  will save your wife? Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has
  assigned to him, and to which God has called him. This is my rule in all
  the churches. (ESV)

61.4. Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers

  II Corinthians 6:14 - Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what
  partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has
  light with darkness? (ESV)

62. More commandments of Jesus (which are all from God)

The words Jesus Christ spoke were altogether a commandment of eternal life
which Father God had given Jesus to speak:

  John 12:49-50 - For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father
  who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say and what to
  speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say,
  therefore, I say as the Father has told me. (ESV)

Video
youtube.com: "These things I command you" Jesus' own words from the 4 Gospels

62.1. From the gospel of Matthew

62.1.1. Do the will of Father God to enter heaven

  Matthew 7:21 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the
  kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

62.1.2. Amend your lives, repent from sin

  Matthew 4:17 - From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent, for
  the kingdom of heaven is at hand. (ESV)

62.1.3. Follow Jesus

  Matthew 4:19 - And he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers
  of men. (ESV)

62.1.4. Rejoice when persecuted, and slandered on Jesus' account

  Matthew 5:11-13 - Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you
  and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and
  be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the
  prophets who were before you. You are the salt of the earth, but if salt
  has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer
  good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.
  (ESV)

Following Jesus:

  Matthew 24:9-13 - Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you
  to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then
  many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. And many
  false prophets will arise and lead many astray. And because lawlessness
  will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures
  to the end will be saved. (ESV)

62.1.5. Let your light (good works) shine before others so they may give glory
to Father God

  Matthew 5:16 - In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that
  they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

62.1.6.

  Matthew 5:23-24 - So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there
  remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there
  before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come
  and offer your gift. (ESV)

62.1.7.

  Matthew 5:29-30 - If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and
  throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that
  your whole body be thrown into hell (1067. geenna). And if your right hand
  causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you
  lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. (ESV)

62.1.8. Do not swear an oath at all

  Matthew 5:34-37 - But I say to you, Do not take an oath at all, either by
  heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is his
  footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King. And do
  not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black.
  Let what you say be simply Yes or No; anything more than this comes from
  evil. (ESV)

62.1.9. Do not render evil for evil

  Matthew 5:38-40 - You have heard that it was said, An eye for an eye and a
  tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But
  if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if
  anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well.
  (ESV)

62.1.10. Overcome evil with good

  Matthew 5:40-41 - And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him
  have your cloak as well. And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with
  him two miles. (ESV)

Paul following and teaching Christ's teachings:

  Romans 12:19-21 - Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the
  wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the
  Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty,
  give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on
  his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. (ESV)

62.1.11. Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would
borrow from you

  Matthew 5:42 - Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one
  who would borrow from you. (ESV)

62.1.12. Love your enemies

  Matthew 5:44-45 - But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those
  who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven.
  For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on
  the just and on the unjust. (ESV)

  Didache Chapter 1 - … Bless those who curse you, and pray for your enemies,
  and fast for those who persecute you. For what reward is there for loving
  those who love you? Do not the Gentiles do the same? But love those who
  hate you, and you shall not have an enemy. …

Philip, an Evangelist in Brazil
We have to treat every single person that we encounter with the love of God
as much as possible. We fall short, we make mistakes, we're not always at our
best, but as much as possible. We provide a testimony.

  Matthew 5:48 - You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is
  perfect. (ESV)

• Do not resist the one who is evil - but do good to them
• Romans 12:21 - Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with
good. (ESV)
• if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also
• if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak
as well
• if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles
• Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who
would borrow from you
• Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you

  Matthew 5:38-48 - You have heard that it was said, An eye for an eye and a
  tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But
  if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if
  anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well.
  And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. Give to the
  one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you.
  You have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate
  (3404. miseó, 3404 miséō – properly, to detest (on a comparative basis);
  hence, denounce; to love someone or something less than someone (something)
  else, i.e. to renounce one choice in favor of another.) your enemy. But I
  say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that
  you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun rise
  on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust.
  For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even
  the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers, what
  more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? You
  therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 5:14 - And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle,
  encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with them all. (ESV)

With Jesus' commandments in mind, we should have joy when the time of testing
happens and things are taken away from us. It can take a really long time.
But we need to not shrink back. I'm also speaking to myself.

  Hebrews 10:34-39 - For you had compassion on those in prison, and you
  joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you
  yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one. Therefore do not
  throw away your confidence, which has a great reward. For you have need of
  endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what
  is promised. For, Yet a little while, and the coming one will come and will
  not delay; but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks
  back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who shrink
  back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their
  souls. (ESV)

62.1.13. Do your good not to get some kind of earthly praise

  Matthew 6:1 - Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people
  in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your
  Father who is in heaven. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:16 - In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that
  they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

  Matthew 9:11-13 - And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his
  disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? But
  when he heard it, he said, Those who are well have no need of a physician,
  but those who are sick. Go and learn what this means, I desire mercy, and
  not sacrifice. For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. (ESV)

62.1.14. Be merciful

  Luke 6:36 - Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. (ESV)

62.1.15. How to pray

  Matthew 6:5 - And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For
  they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners,
  that they may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received
  their reward. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:6 - But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and
  pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret
  will reward you. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:7 - And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the
  Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 6:8-13 - Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need
  before you ask him. Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be
  your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in
  heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we
  also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but
  deliver us from evil. (ESV)

62.1.16. How to fast

A Guide to Prayer and Fasting - General Assembly

|  fasting
|      The self-denial of some or all food or
|      drink as the faithful express their
|      intense concerns to God in special times
|      of prayer and worship.

  Matthew 6:16-18 - And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the
  hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen
  by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. But when
  you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, that your fasting may not be
  seen by others but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who
  sees in secret will reward you. (ESV)

When you fast:

• anoint your head and wash your face
• that your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father who
is in secret
• don't even tell anyone
• pray while you fast:
• your Father knows what you need before you ask him
• pray in secret
• ask for God's will be done
• forgive others
• also, fast for those who persecute you
• be prepared with Scripture, and use it
• praise and worship the Lord
• youtube.com: Holy Forever Medley | Jesus Image | John Wilds

Just fast for God, and focus on God:

  James 4:8 - Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your
  hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. (ESV)

Have a goal reason for fasting:

• e.g. before baptism

Go for about a month month, or 40 days, just go without:

• breakfast
• lunch
• coffee

Focus:

• more on prayer
• more on meditating on Jesus' commandments
• willing God's will and not your own

Be:

• repentant

Repent while fasting:

  Joel 2:12-17 - Yet even now, declares the LORD, return to me with all your
  heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning; and rend your hearts
  and not your garments. Return to the LORD, your God, for he is gracious and
  merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love; and he relents
  over disaster. Who knows whether he will not turn and relent, and leave a
  blessing behind him, a grain offering and a drink offering for the LORD
  your God? Blow the trumpet in Zion; consecrate a fast; call a solemn
  assembly; gather the people. Consecrate the congregation; assemble the
  elders; gather the children, even nursing infants. Let the bridegroom leave
  his room, and the bride her chamber. Between the vestibule and the altar
  let the priests, the ministers of the LORD, weep and say, Spare your
  people, O LORD, and make not your heritage a reproach, a byword among the
  nations. Why should they say among the peoples, Where is their God? (ESV)

Be humble while fasting and supplicating to God:

  Isaiah 58:4-6 - Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit
  with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice to
  be heard on high. Is such the fast that I choose, a day for a person to
  humble himself? Is it to bow down his head like a reed, and to spread
  sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast, and a day
  acceptable to the LORD? Is not this the fast that I choose: to loose the
  bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to let the oppressed
  go free, and to break every yoke? (ESV)

Some manuscripts include 'fasting' in Mark 9:29:

  Mark 9:29 - And he said to them, This kind cannot be driven out by anything
  but prayer. (ESV)

  Mark 9:29 - And He said to them, “This kind cannot come out by anything but
  prayer.” (NASB)

  Mark 9:29 - And he said unto them, This kind can come forth by nothing, but
  by prayer and fasting. (KJV)

We should fast to seek the LORD and we should fast together for a common
purpose:

  II Chronicles 20:3 - Then Jehoshaphat was afraid and set his face to seek
  the LORD, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. (ESV)

  Didache Chapter 7 - … But before the baptism let the baptizer fast, and the
  baptized, and whoever else can; but you shall order the baptized to fast
  one or two days before.

We should even fast for the sake of others:

  Didache Chapter 1 - … Bless those who curse you, and pray for your enemies,
  and fast for those who persecute you. For what reward is there for loving
  those who love you? Do not the Gentiles do the same? But love those who
  hate you, and you shall not have an enemy. …

  Ezra 10:6 - Then Ezra withdrew from before the house of God and went to the
  chamber of Jehohanan the son of Eliashib, where he spent the night, neither
  eating bread nor drinking water, for he was mourning over the faithlessness
  of the exiles. (ESV)

Use Scripture while fasting. Fast for days, or weeks:

  Matthew 4:1-4 - Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to
  be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he
  was hungry. And the tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of
  God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But he answered, It is
  written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes
  from the mouth of God. (ESV)

Praise and worship the Lord while fasting:

  Acts 13:2 - While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy
  Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I
  have called them. (ESV)

Pray while fasting:

  Acts 14:23 - And when they had appointed elders for them in every church,
  with prayer and fasting they committed them to the Lord in whom they had
  believed. (ESV)

Repentance in the heart:

  Psalms 69:10 - When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting, it became my
  reproach. (ESV)

  Psalms 69:10 - When I wept in my soul with fasting, It became my reproach.
  (NASB)

  Psalms 69:10 - When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to
  my reproach. (KJV)

62.1.17. Lay up treasure in heaven, not on earth - have your heart in heaven,
not on earth

I'm pretty convinced that what Jesus means by the following is that by giving
up earthly treasure in the pursuit of Jesus, heavenly treasure is acquired.
I'd say it's likely that the heavenly treasure is simply helping those
people. So selling what a person possesses and giving to those in need,
though apart from faith in Jesus isn't a "requirement for eternal life", it
is a fast track to serving Jesus and getting our heart in heaven and leaning
on Jesus, so doing as Jesus said in obedient faith is already starting to
follow Jesus and store up heavenly treasure. Seek heavenly reward, not
earthly reward. Have a heart seeking reward from God and not from man. Have
your heart in heaven, not in earth. We give up our earthly treasure and help
other people with it and this becomes heavenly treasure, and we then go after
Jesus as our Pearl of Great Price:

  Matthew 6:19-21 - Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where
  moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for
  yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and
  where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there
  your heart will be also. (ESV)

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me. (ESV)

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

62.1.18. Trust in God to provide

  Matthew 6:25-34 - Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life,
  what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you
  will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
  Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into
  barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value
  than they? And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his
  span of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies
  of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you,
  even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God
  so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is
  thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little
  faith? Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or What
  shall we drink? or What shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after all
  these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But
  seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things
  will be added to you. Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for
  tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own
  trouble. (ESV)

62.1.19. Seek first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness

  Matthew 6:33 - But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and
  all these things will be added to you. (ESV)

62.1.20. Do not judge unless you don't mind being judged by the same judgement

  Matthew 7:1-2 - Judge not, that you be not judged. For with the judgment
  you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be
  measured to you. (ESV)

  Luke 6:37 - , Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you
  will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven; (ESV)

  James 3:1 - Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you
  know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. (ESV)

62.1.21.

  Matthew 7:5 - You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and
  then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.
  (ESV)

62.1.22.

  Matthew 7:6 - Do not give dogs what is holy, and do not throw your pearls
  before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you. (ESV)

62.1.23. Ask and seek

  Matthew 7:7 - Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find;
  knock, and it will be opened to you. (ESV)

Also, Luke 11:13 says God gives the Holy Spirit to those who ask him. So I
think it's typical to believe God, believing the gospel, and to ask God for
His Holy Spirit, expecting that God will cleanse our heart through faith,
being prepared to continue obeying the truth for a sincere brotherly love:

  Luke 11:13 - If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your
  children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to
  those who ask him! (ESV)

62.1.24. Golden Rule

  Matthew 7:12 - So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to
  them, for this is the Law and the Prophets. (ESV)

62.1.25. Enter by the narrow gate

  Matthew 7:13-14 - Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the
  way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.
  For the gate is narrow (4728 stenos ie. narrow, small) and the way is hard
  (2346 thlibó - meaning: like when circumstances "rub us the wrong way" that
  make us feel confined (hemmed in); restricted to a "narrow" place) that
  leads to life, and those who find it are few. (ESV)

62.1.26. Beware of false prophets

  Matthew 7:15-16 - Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's
  clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their
  fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles? (ESV)

62.1.27. Follow Jesus

  Matthew 8:22 - And Jesus said to him, Follow me, and leave the dead to bury
  their own dead. (ESV)

62.1.28.

  Matthew 9:2 - And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic, lying on
  a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Take
  heart, my son; your sins are forgiven. (ESV)

62.1.29. Rely on God's mercy continually, and have mercy on others

  Matthew 9:13 - Go and learn what this means, I desire mercy, and not
  sacrifice. For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. (ESV)

62.1.30.

  Matthew 9:22 - Jesus turned, and seeing her he said, Take heart, daughter;
  your faith has made you well. And instantly the woman was made well. (ESV)

62.1.31.

  Matthew 9:29 - Then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith
  be it done to you. (ESV)

62.1.32. Pray for God to work/extend His kingdom, sending laborers

  Matthew 9:38 - therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send
  out laborers into his harvest. (ESV)

bibledaily.net: Pray for God to Send More Labourers To The Harvest Field
Father, I pray that You'll send more labourers into the harvest field of
souls. Supply them with the anointing and provision to do your work without
struggle, in the name of Jesus. Amen

62.1.33.

  Matthew 10:7-10 - And proclaim as you go, saying, The kingdom of heaven is
  at hand. Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons.
  You received without paying; give without pay. Acquire no gold nor silver
  nor copper for your belts, no bag for your journey, nor two tunics nor
  sandals nor a staff, for the laborer deserves his food. (ESV)

62.1.34.

  Matthew 10:11-14 - And whatever town or village you enter, find out who is
  worthy in it and stay there until you depart. As you enter the house, greet
  it. And if the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it, but if it is
  not worthy, let your peace return to you. And if anyone will not receive
  you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from your feet when you
  leave that house or town. (ESV)

62.1.35. As Jesus' sheep, be wise and innocent amongst 'wolves'

  Matthew 10:16 - Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of
  wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves. (ESV)

62.1.36.

  Matthew 10:17 - Beware of men, for they will deliver you over to courts and
  flog you in their synagogues, (ESV)

62.1.37.

  Matthew 10:19-20 - When they deliver you over, do not be anxious how you
  are to speak or what you are to say, for what you are to say will be given
  to you in that hour. For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your
  Father speaking through you. (ESV)

62.1.38.

  Matthew 10:23 - When they persecute you in one town, flee to the next, for
  truly, I say to you, you will not have gone through all the towns of Israel
  before the Son of Man comes. (ESV)

62.1.39.

  Matthew 10:26 - So have no fear of them, for nothing is covered that will
  not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. (ESV)

62.1.40.

  Matthew 10:27 - What I tell you in the dark, say in the light, and what you
  hear whispered, proclaim on the housetops. (ESV)

62.1.41.

  Matthew 10:28 - And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the
  soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. (ESV)

62.1.42.

  Matthew 10:31 - Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many
  sparrows. (ESV)

62.1.43.

  Matthew 11:15 - He who has ears to hear, let him hear. (ESV)

62.1.44.

  Matthew 11:28 - Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will
  give you rest. (ESV)

62.1.45.

  Matthew 11:29 - Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle
  and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. (ESV)

62.1.46.

  Matthew 12:33 - Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the
  tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. (ESV)

62.1.47.

  Matthew 13:9 - He who has ears, let him hear. (ESV)

62.1.48.

  Matthew 13:43 - Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom
  of their Father. He who has ears, let him hear. (ESV)

62.1.49.

  Matthew 15:10-11 - And he called the people to him and said to them, Hear
  and understand: it is not what goes into the mouth that defiles a person,
  but what comes out of the mouth; this defiles a person. (ESV)

62.1.50.

  Matthew 16:6 - Jesus said to them, Watch and beware of the leaven of the
  Pharisees and Sadducees. (ESV)

62.1.51.

  Matthew 16:24 - Then Jesus told his disciples, If anyone would come after
  me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. (ESV)

62.1.52.

  Matthew 18:8-9 - And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it
  off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life crippled or lame
  than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire. And if
  your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. It is better for
  you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the
  hell of fire. (ESV)

62.1.53.

  Matthew 18:10 - See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I
  tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who
  is in heaven. (ESV)

62.1.54.

  Matthew 19:14 - but Jesus said, Let the little children come to me and do
  not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. (ESV)

62.1.55.

  Matthew 19:21 - Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what
  you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and
  come, follow me. (ESV)

62.1.56.

  Matthew 22:21 - They said, Caesar's. Then he said to them, Therefore render
  to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are
  God's. (ESV)

62.1.57.

  Matthew 22:37-40 - And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God
  with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is
  the great and first commandment. And a second is like it: You shall love
  your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the Law and
  the Prophets. (ESV)

62.1.58.

  Matthew 23:2-4 - The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so
  practice and observe whatever they tell you—but not what they do. For they
  preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and
  lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move
  them with their finger. (ESV)

62.1.59.

  Matthew 23:8 - But you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one
  teacher, and you are all brothers. (ESV)

62.1.60.

  Matthew 23:9 - And call no man your father on earth, for you have one
  Father, who is in heaven. (ESV)

62.1.61. Be instructed by Christ

  Matthew 23:10 - Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor
  (G2519. kathégétés), the Christ. (ESV)

2519. kathégétés
Definition: Teacher, Leader, Guide. Meaning: a leader, teacher, guide,
master.

62.1.62.

  Matthew 24:4-5 - And Jesus answered them, See that no one leads you astray.
  For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and they will lead
  many astray. (ESV)

62.1.63.

  Matthew 24:6 - And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you
  are not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet. (ESV)

62.1.64.

  Matthew 24:15-18 - So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of
  by the prophet Daniel, standing in the holy place (let the reader
  understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let the
  one who is on the housetop not go down to take what is in his house, and
  let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak. (ESV)

62.1.65.

  Matthew 24:23 - Then if anyone says to you, Look, here is the Christ! or
  There he is! do not believe it. (ESV)

62.1.66.

  Matthew 24:26 - So, if they say to you, Look, he is in the wilderness, do
  not go out. If they say, Look, he is in the inner rooms, do not believe it.
  (ESV)

62.1.67.

  Matthew 24:32-35 - From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its
  branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is
  near. So also, when you see all these things, you know that he is near, at
  the very gates. Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away
  until all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my
  words will not pass away. (ESV)

62.1.68. Our Lord is the Son of Man, and we should be ready and on alert

  Matthew 24:42 - Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your
  Lord is coming. (ESV)

  Matthew 24:44 - Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is
  coming at an hour you do not expect. (ESV)

  Matthew 25:13 - Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour.
  (ESV)

  Luke 18:8 - I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily.
  Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?

62.1.69.

  Matthew 26:26 - Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after
  blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat;
  this is my body. (ESV)

62.1.70.

  Matthew 26:27-28 - And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave
  it to them, saying, Drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the
  covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. (ESV)

62.1.71.

  Matthew 26:41 - Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The
  spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. (ESV)

62.1.72.

  Matthew 26:52 - Then Jesus said to him, Put your sword back into its place.
  For all who take the sword will perish by the sword. (ESV)

62.1.73.

  Matthew 28:19-20 - Go therefore and make disciples of all nations,
  baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy
  Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold,
  I am with you always, to the end of the age. (ESV)

62.2. From the gospel of Mark

62.2.1.

  Mark 1:15 - and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at
  hand; repent and believe in the gospel. (ESV)

62.2.2. Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men

  Mark 1:17 - And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become
  fishers of men. (ESV)

62.2.3.

  Mark 4:9 - And he said, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. (ESV)

62.2.4.

  Mark 4:23 - If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. (ESV)

62.2.5.

  Mark 4:24 - And he said to them, Pay attention to what you hear: with the
  measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added
  to you. (ESV)

62.2.6.

  Mark 6:10-11 - And he said to them, Whenever you enter a house, stay there
  until you depart from there. And if any place will not receive you and they
  will not listen to you, when you leave, shake off the dust that is on your
  feet as a testimony against them. (ESV)

62.2.7.

  Mark 7:14-16 - And he called the people to him again and said to them, Hear
  me, all of you, and understand: There is nothing outside a person that by
  going into him can defile him, but the things that come out of a person are
  what defile him. (ESV)

62.2.8.

  Mark 8:15 - And he cautioned them, saying, Watch out; beware of the leaven
  of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. (ESV)

62.2.9.

  Mark 8:34 - And he called to him the crowd with his disciples and said to
  them, If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his
  cross and follow me. (ESV)

62.2.10.

  Mark 9:23 - And Jesus said to him, If you can! All things are possible for
  one who believes. (ESV)

62.2.11.

  Mark 9:39-41 - But Jesus said, Do not stop him, for no one who does a
  mighty work in my name will be able soon afterward to speak evil of me. For
  the one who is not against us is for us. For truly, I say to you, whoever
  gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ will by no
  means lose his reward. (ESV)

62.2.12.

  Mark 9:45 - And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better
  for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell. (ESV)

62.2.13.

  Mark 9:47 - And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better
  for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be
  thrown into hell, (ESV)

62.2.14.

  Mark 9:50 - Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will
  you make it salty again? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one
  another. (ESV)

62.2.15.

  Mark 10:9 - What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.
  (ESV)

62.2.16.

  Mark 10:14-15 - But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them,
  Let the children come to me; do not hinder them, for to such belongs the
  kingdom of God. Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom
  of God like a child shall not enter it. (ESV)

62.2.17.

  Mark 10:21 - And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, You
  lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you
  will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. (ESV)

62.2.18.

  Mark 11:22 - And Jesus answered them, Have faith in God. (ESV)

62.2.19.

  Mark 11:24 - Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that
  you have received it, and it will be yours. (ESV)

62.2.20.

  Mark 11:25 - And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything
  against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you
  your trespasses. (ESV)

62.2.21.

  Mark 12:17 - Jesus said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are
  Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marveled at him.
  (ESV)

62.2.22.

  Mark 12:29-31 - Jesus answered, The most important is, Hear, O Israel: The
  Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with
  all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all
  your strength. The second is this: You shall love your neighbor as
  yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. (ESV)

62.2.23.

  Mark 12:38-40 - And in his teaching he said, Beware of the scribes, who
  like to walk around in long robes and like greetings in the marketplaces
  and have the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at
  feasts, who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers.
  They will receive the greater condemnation. (ESV)

62.2.24.

  Mark 13:5-6 - And Jesus began to say to them, See that no one leads you
  astray. Many will come in my name, saying, I am he! and they will lead many
  astray. (ESV)

62.2.25.

  Mark 13:7 - And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be
  alarmed. This must take place, but the end is not yet. (ESV)

62.2.26.

  Mark 13:9 - But be on your guard. For they will deliver you over to
  councils, and you will be beaten in synagogues, and you will stand before
  governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them. (ESV)

62.2.27.

  Mark 13:10 - And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations. (ESV)

62.2.28.

  Mark 13:11 - And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not
  be anxious beforehand what you are to say, but say whatever is given you in
  that hour, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit. (ESV)

62.2.29.

  Mark 13:14-16 - But when you see the abomination of desolation standing
  where it ought not to be (let the reader understand), then let those who
  are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let the one who is on the housetop not
  go down, nor enter his house, to take anything out, and let the one who is
  in the field not turn back to take his cloak. (ESV)

62.2.30.

  Mark 13:21-23 - And then if anyone says to you, Look, here is the Christ!
  or Look, there he is! do not believe it. False christs and false prophets
  will arise and perform signs and wonders, to lead astray, if possible, the
  elect. But be on guard; I have told you all things beforehand. (ESV)

62.2.31.

  Mark 13:28-29 - From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch
  becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near. So
  also, when you see these things taking place, you know that he is near, at
  the very gates. (ESV)

62.2.32.

  Mark 13:32-33 - But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not
  even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Be on guard,
  keep awake. For you do not know when the time will come. (ESV)

62.2.33.

  Mark 13:35-37 - Therefore stay awake—for you do not know when the master of
  the house will come, in the evening, or at midnight, or when the cock
  crows, or in the morning— lest he come suddenly and find you asleep. And
  what I say to you I say to all: Stay awake. (ESV)

62.2.34.

  Mark 14:22 - And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it
  broke it and gave it to them, and said, Take; this is my body. (ESV)

62.2.35.

  Mark 14:38 - Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The
  spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. (ESV)

62.2.36.

  Mark 16:15 - And he said to them, Go into all the world and proclaim the
  gospel to the whole creation. (ESV)

62.3. From the gospel of Luke

62.3.1.

  Luke 6:22-23 - Blessed are you when people hate you and when they exclude
  you and revile you and spurn your name as evil, on account of the Son of
  Man! Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is
  great in heaven; for so their fathers did to the prophets. (ESV)

62.3.2.

  Luke 6:27-28 - But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to
  those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse
  you. (ESV)

We should pray for our enemies and bless those who curse us. After all, at
one time I was myself in the dark, and we are not fighting against flesh and
blood.

  Proverbs 24:17-18 - Do not rejoice when your enemy falls, and let not your
  heart be glad when he stumbles, lest the LORD see it and be displeased, and
  turn away his anger from him. (ESV)

  Ephesians 6:12 - For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against
  the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this
  present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly
  places. (ESV)

62.3.3.

  Luke 6:29 - To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also, and
  from one who takes away your cloak do not withhold your tunic either. (ESV)

62.3.4.

  Luke 6:30 - Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away
  your goods do not demand them back. (ESV)

62.3.5.

  Luke 6:31 - And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them.
  (ESV)

62.3.6.

  Luke 6:35 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing
  in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most
  High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. (ESV)

62.3.7. Be merciful

  Matthew 9:11-13 - And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his
  disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? But
  when he heard it, he said, Those who are well have no need of a physician,
  but those who are sick. Go and learn what this means, I desire mercy, and
  not sacrifice. For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. (ESV)

  Luke 6:36 - Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. (ESV)

62.3.8. Forgive that we be forgiven

  Luke 6:37 - , Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you
  will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven; (ESV)

And absolutely do not bear grudges against those who are in Christ:

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

62.3.9.

  Luke 6:38 - give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down,
  shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For with the
  measure you use it will be measured back to you. (ESV)

62.3.10.

  Luke 6:42 - How can you say to your brother, Brother, let me take out the
  speck that is in your eye, when you yourself do not see the log that is in
  your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and
  then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother's
  eye. (ESV)

62.3.11.

  Luke 8:8 - And some fell into good soil and grew and yielded a hundredfold.
  As he said these things, he called out, He who has ears to hear, let him
  hear. (ESV)

62.3.12.

  Luke 8:18 - Take care then how you hear, for to the one who has, more will
  be given, and from the one who has not, even what he thinks that he has
  will be taken away. (ESV)

62.3.13.

  Luke 8:48 - And he said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well; go
  in peace. (ESV)

62.3.14.

  Luke 8:50 - But Jesus on hearing this answered him, Do not fear; only
  believe, and she will be well. (ESV)

62.3.15.

  Luke 9:3-5 - And he said to them, Take nothing for your journey, no staff,
  nor bag, nor bread, nor money; and do not have two tunics. And whatever
  house you enter, stay there, and from there depart. And wherever they do
  not receive you, when you leave that town shake off the dust from your feet
  as a testimony against them. (ESV)

62.3.16.

  Luke 9:23 - And he said to all, If anyone would come after me, let him deny
  himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. (ESV)

62.3.17.

  Luke 9:48 - and said to them, Whoever receives this child in my name
  receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For he who
  is least (3398. mikros) among you all is the one who is great. (ESV)

62.3.18.

  Luke 9:50 - But Jesus said to him, Do not stop him, for the one who is not
  against you is for you. (ESV)

62.3.19.

  Luke 9:60 - And Jesus said to him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead.
  But as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God. (ESV)

62.3.20.

  Luke 10:2-11 - And he said to them, The harvest is plentiful, but the
  laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to
  send out laborers into his harvest. Go your way; behold, I am sending you
  out as lambs in the midst of wolves. Carry no moneybag, no knapsack, no
  sandals, and greet no one on the road. Whatever house you enter, first say,
  Peace be to this house! And if a son of peace is there, your peace will
  rest upon him. But if not, it will return to you. And remain in the same
  house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his
  wages. Do not go from house to house. Whenever you enter a town and they
  receive you, eat what is set before you. Heal the sick in it and say to
  them, The kingdom of God has come near to you. But whenever you enter a
  town and they do not receive you, go into its streets and say, Even the
  dust of your town that clings to our feet we wipe off against you.
  Nevertheless know this, that the kingdom of God has come near. (ESV)

62.3.21.

  Luke 10:20 - Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are
  subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven. (ESV)

62.3.22.

  Luke 11:2-4 - And he said to them, When you pray, say: Father, hallowed be
  your name. Your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread, and forgive
  us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And
  lead us not into temptation. (ESV)

62.3.23.

  Luke 11:9 - And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you
  will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. (ESV)

62.3.24.

  Luke 11:33 - No one after lighting a lamp puts it in a cellar or under a
  basket, but on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light. (ESV)

62.3.25.

  Luke 11:34-35 - Your eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is
  healthy, your whole body is full of light, but when it is bad, your body is
  full of darkness. Therefore be careful lest the light in you be darkness.
  (ESV)

62.3.26.

  Luke 11:41 - But give as alms those things that are within, and behold,
  everything is clean for you. (ESV)

62.3.27.

  Luke 12:1-3 - In the meantime, when so many thousands of the people had
  gathered together that they were trampling one another, he began to say to
  his disciples first, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is
  hypocrisy. Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that
  will not be known. Therefore whatever you have said in the dark shall be
  heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be
  proclaimed on the housetops. (ESV)

62.3.28.

  Luke 12:4-5 - I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body,
  and after that have nothing more that they can do. But I will warn you whom
  to fear: fear him who, after he has killed, has authority to cast into
  hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him! (ESV)

62.3.29.

  Luke 12:7 - Why, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not;
  you are of more value than many sparrows. (ESV)

62.3.30.

  Luke 12:11-12 - And when they bring you before the synagogues and the
  rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious about how you should defend
  yourself or what you should say, for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that
  very hour what you ought to say. (ESV)

62.3.31.

  Luke 12:15 - And he said to them, Take care, and be on your guard against
  all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his
  possessions. (ESV)

62.3.32.

  Luke 12:22-24 - And he said to his disciples, Therefore I tell you, do not
  be anxious about your life, what you will eat, nor about your body, what
  you will put on. For life is more than food, and the body more than
  clothing. Consider the ravens: they neither sow nor reap, they have neither
  storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you
  than the birds! (ESV)

62.3.33.

  Luke 12:27-28 - Consider the lilies, how they grow: they neither toil nor
  spin, yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like
  one of these. But if God so clothes the grass, which is alive in the field
  today, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe
  you, O you of little faith! (ESV)

62.3.34.

  Luke 12:29-30 - And do not seek what you are to eat and what you are to
  drink, nor be worried. For all the nations of the world seek after these
  things, and your Father knows that you need them. (ESV)

62.3.35.

  Luke 12:31 - Instead, seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to
  you. (ESV)

62.3.36.

Consider that Jesus is making Father God known.

  Luke 12:32 - Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure
  to give you the kingdom. (ESV)

Consider this as I read Jesus' words talking about Father God:

  John 1:18 - No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's
  side, he has made him known. (ESV)

62.3.37.

  Luke 12:33-34 - Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide
  yourselves with moneybags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the
  heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
  For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. (ESV)

62.3.38.

  Luke 12:35-36 - Stay dressed for action and keep your lamps burning, and be
  like men who are waiting for their master to come home from the wedding
  feast, so that they may open the door to him at once when he comes and
  knocks. (ESV)

62.3.39.

  Luke 12:58 - As you go with your accuser before the magistrate, make an
  effort to settle with him on the way, lest he drag you to the judge, and
  the judge hand you over to the officer, and the officer put you in prison.
  (ESV)

62.3.40.

  Luke 13:24 - Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you,
  will seek to enter and will not be able. (ESV)

62.3.41.

  Luke 14:8-11 - When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not
  sit down in a place of honor, lest someone more distinguished than you be
  invited by him, and he who invited you both will come and say to you, Give
  your place to this person, and then you will begin with shame to take the
  lowest place. But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so
  that when your host comes he may say to you, Friend, move up higher. Then
  you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at table with you. For
  everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself
  will be exalted. (ESV)

62.3.42.

  Luke 14:12-14 - He said also to the man who had invited him, When you give
  a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your
  relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and you be
  repaid. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame,
  the blind, and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. You will
  be repaid at the resurrection of the just. (ESV)

62.3.43.

  Luke 14:34 - Salt is good, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its
  saltiness be restored? (ESV)

62.3.44.

  Luke 16:9 - And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of
  unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails they may receive you into the
  eternal dwellings. (ESV)

62.3.45.

  Luke 17:3-4 - Pay attention to yourselves! If your brother sins, rebuke
  him, and if he repents, forgive him, and if he sins against you seven times
  in the day, and turns to you seven times, saying, I repent, you must
  forgive him. (ESV)

62.3.46.

  Luke 17:10 - So you also, when you have done all that you were commanded,
  say, We are unworthy servants; we have only done what was our duty. (ESV)

62.3.47.

  Luke 17:19 - And he said to him, Rise and go your way; your faith has made
  you well. (ESV)

62.3.48.

  Luke 17:21 - nor will they say, Look, here it is! or There! for behold, the
  kingdom of God is in the midst of you. (ESV)

62.3.49.

  Luke 17:22-25 - And he said to the disciples, The days are coming when you
  will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see
  it. And they will say to you, Look, there! or Look, here! Do not go out or
  follow them. For as the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one
  side to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day. But first he must
  suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. (ESV)

62.3.50.

  Luke 17:30-31 - so will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed.
  On that day, let the one who is on the housetop, with his goods in the
  house, not come down to take them away, and likewise let the one who is in
  the field not turn back. (ESV)

62.3.51.

  Luke 18:6-8 - And the Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge says. And
  will not God give justice to his elect, who cry to him day and night? ,
  Will he delay long over them? I tell you, he will give justice to them
  speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on
  earth? (ESV)

62.3.52.

  Luke 18:16-17 - But Jesus called them to him, saying, Let the children come
  to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.
  Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a
  child shall not enter it. (ESV)

62.3.53.

  Luke 18:22 - When Jesus heard this, he said to him, One thing you still
  lack. Sell all that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have
  treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. (ESV)

62.3.54.

  Luke 18:42 - And Jesus said to him, Recover your sight; your faith has made
  you well. (ESV)

62.3.55.

  Luke 20:25 - He said to them, Then render to Caesar the things that are
  Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. (ESV)

62.3.56.

  Luke 20:46-47 - Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long
  robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces and the best seats in the
  synagogues and the places of honor at feasts, who devour widows' houses and
  for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater
  condemnation. (ESV)

62.3.57.

  Luke 21:8-9 - And he said, See that you are not led astray. For many will
  come in my name, saying, I am he! and, The time is at hand! Do not go after
  them. And when you hear of wars and tumults, do not be terrified, for these
  things must first take place, but the end will not be at once. (ESV)

62.3.58.

  Luke 21:14-19 - Settle it therefore in your minds not to meditate
  beforehand how to answer, for I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which
  none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict. You will
  be delivered up even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and
  some of you they will put to death. You will be hated by all for my name's
  sake. But not a hair of your head will perish. By your endurance you will
  gain your lives. (ESV)

62.3.59.

  Luke 21:20-22 - But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know
  that its desolation has come near. Then let those who are in Judea flee to
  the mountains, and let those who are inside the city depart, and let not
  those who are out in the country enter it, for these are days of vengeance,
  to fulfill all that is written. (ESV)

62.3.60.

  Luke 21:25-28 - And there will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on
  the earth distress of nations in perplexity because of the roaring of the
  sea and the waves, people fainting with fear and with foreboding of what is
  coming on the world. For the powers of the heavens will be shaken. And then
  they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
  Now when these things begin to take place, straighten up and raise your
  heads, because your redemption is drawing near. (ESV)

62.3.61.

  Luke 21:29-31 - And he told them a parable: Look at the fig tree, and all
  the trees. As soon as they come out in leaf, you see for yourselves and
  know that the summer is already near. So also, when you see these things
  taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near. (ESV)

62.3.62.

  Luke 21:34-36 - But watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with
  dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon
  you suddenly like a trap. For it will come upon all who dwell on the face
  of the whole earth. But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have
  strength to escape all these things that are going to take place, and to
  stand before the Son of Man. (ESV)

62.3.63.

  Luke 22:17-18 - And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he said,
  Take this, and divide it among yourselves. For I tell you that from now on
  I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.
  (ESV)

62.3.64.

  Luke 22:19 - And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it
  and gave it to them, saying, This is my body, which is given for you. Do
  this in remembrance of me. (ESV)

62.3.65.

  Luke 22:26 - But not so with you. Rather, let the greatest among you become
  as the youngest, and the leader as one who serves. (ESV)

62.3.66.

  Luke 22:36-37 - He said to them, But now let the one who has a moneybag
  take it, and likewise a knapsack. And let the one who has no sword sell his
  cloak and buy one. For I tell you that this Scripture must be fulfilled in
  me: And he was numbered with the transgressors. For what is written about
  me has its fulfillment. (ESV)

62.3.67.

  Luke 22:40 - And when he came to the place, he said to them, Pray that you
  may not enter into temptation. (ESV)

62.3.68.

  Luke 22:46 - and he said to them, Why are you sleeping? Rise and pray that
  you may not enter into temptation. (ESV)

62.3.69.

  Luke 23:28-31 - But turning to them Jesus said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do
  not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For behold,
  the days are coming when they will say, Blessed are the barren and the
  wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed! Then they will
  begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us, and to the hills, Cover us. For
  if they do these things when the wood is green, what will happen when it is
  dry? (ESV)

62.3.70.

  Luke 24:36 - As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood
  among them, and said to them, Peace to you! (ESV)

62.3.71.

  Luke 24:38-39 - And he said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do
  doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself.
  Touch me, and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see
  that I have. (ESV)

62.3.72.

  Luke 24:49 - And behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you.
  But stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high. (ESV)

62.4. From the gospel of John

62.4.1.

  John 1:43 - The next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. He found Philip
  and said to him, Follow me. (ESV)

62.4.2.

  John 2:16 - And he told those who sold the pigeons, Take these things away;
  do not make my Father's house a house of trade. (ESV)

62.4.3.

  John 4:34-35 - Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who
  sent me and to accomplish his work. Do you not say, There are yet four
  months, then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and
  see that the fields are white for harvest. (ESV)

62.4.4.

  John 5:14 - Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See,
  you are well! Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. (ESV)

62.4.5.

  John 6:27 - Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that
  endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him
  God the Father has set his seal. (ESV)

62.4.6.

  John 6:29 - Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you believe
  in him whom he has sent. (ESV)

62.4.7.

  John 6:43-44 - Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among yourselves. No one
  can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise
  him up on the last day. (ESV)

62.4.8.

  John 7:24 - Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment.
  (ESV)

62.4.9.

  John 7:37-38 - On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up
  and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever
  believes in me, as the Scripture has said, Out of his heart will flow
  rivers of living water. (ESV)

62.4.10.

  John 8:7 - And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them,
  Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her.
  (ESV)

62.4.11.

  John 8:11 - She said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn
  you; go, and from now on sin no more. (ESV)

62.4.12.

  John 10:37-38 - If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not
  believe me; but if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe
  the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I
  am in the Father. (ESV)

62.4.13.

  John 12:26 - If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there
  will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
  (ESV)

62.4.14.

  John 12:35-36 - So Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little
  while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you.
  The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While
  you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of
  light. When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from
  them. (ESV)

62.4.15. Jesus washed out feet. Now we wash others' feet. A saint, having been
forgiven and love by Jesus passes forward this love and forgiveness and bears
other people's burdens

  John 13:14-15 - If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet,
  you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example,
  that you also should do just as I have done to you. (ESV)

62.4.16.

  John 13:34 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. (ESV)

62.4.17.

  John 14:1 - Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also
  in me. (ESV)

62.4.18.

  John 14:11 - Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me, or
  else believe on account of the works themselves. (ESV)

62.4.19.

  John 14:15 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. (ESV)

62.4.20.

  John 14:27 - Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the
  world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let
  them be afraid. (ESV)

62.4.21.

  John 15:4 - Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by
  itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in
  me. (ESV)

62.4.22.

  John 15:9 - As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my
  love. (ESV)

62.4.23.

  John 15:12 - This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have
  loved you. (ESV)

62.4.24.

  John 15:17 - These things I command you, so that you will love one another.
  (ESV)

62.4.25.

  John 15:20 - Remember the word that I said to you: A servant is not greater
  than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If
  they kept my word, they will also keep yours. (ESV)

62.4.26.

  John 15:26-27 - But when the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the
  Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear
  witness about me. And you also will bear witness, because you have been
  with me from the beginning. (ESV)

62.4.27.

  John 16:24 - Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will
  receive, that your joy may be full. (ESV)

62.4.28.

  John 16:33 - I have said these things to you, that in me you may have
  peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have
  overcome the world. (ESV)

62.4.29.

  John 20:17 - Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet
  ascended to the Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, I am
  ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. (ESV)

62.4.30.

  John 20:19 - On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the
  doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus
  came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. (ESV)

62.4.31.

  John 20:21 - Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you. As the Father has
  sent me, even so I am sending you. (ESV)

62.4.32.

  John 20:22-23 - And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to
  them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of anyone, they are
  forgiven; if you withhold forgiveness from anyone, it is withheld. (ESV)

62.4.33.

  John 20:27 - Then he said to Thomas, Put your finger here, and see my
  hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve,
  but believe. (ESV)

62.4.34.

  John 21:17 - He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love
  me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love
  me? and he said to him, Lord, you know everything; you know that I love
  you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. (ESV)

62.4.35.

  John 21:19 - (This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify
  God.) And after saying this he said to him, Follow me. (ESV)

62.5. From the Acts of the Apostles

62.5.1.

  Acts 1:4-5 - And while staying with them he ordered them not to depart from
  Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, you
  heard from me; for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with
  the Holy Spirit not many days from now. (ESV)

62.5.2.

  Acts 10:15 - And the voice came to him again a second time, What God has
  made clean, do not call common. (ESV)

62.5.3.

  Acts 18:9-10 - And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, Do not be
  afraid, but go on speaking and do not be silent, for I am with you, and no
  one will attack you to harm you, for I have many in this city who are my
  people. (ESV)

62.6. We must abide by His teaching

  II John 1:9 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching
  of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the
  Father and the Son. (ESV)

  Luke 6:46-49 - Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you?
  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you
  what he is like: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid
  the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke
  against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
  But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house
  on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it,
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. (ESV)

  Mark 16:15 - And he said to them, Go into all the world and proclaim the
  gospel to the whole creation. (ESV)

62.6.1. Notice how James and Paul both here abide by Jesus' teaching

With the judgment you pronounce you will be judged:

  Matthew 7:1-5 - Judge not, that you be not judged. For with the judgment
  you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be
  measured to you. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye,
  but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to
  your brother, Let me take the speck out of your eye, when there is the log
  in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and
  then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.
  (ESV)

  Romans 2:1 - Therefore you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who
  judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself, because
  you, the judge, practice the very same things. (ESV)

  James 4:11-12 - Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one
  who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against the
  law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the
  law but a judge. There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to
  save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? (ESV)

Do not worry about tomorrow:

  Matthew 6:25-34 - Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life,
  what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you
  will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
  Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into
  barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value
  than they? And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his
  span of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies
  of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you,
  even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God
  so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is
  thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little
  faith? Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or What
  shall we drink? or What shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after all
  these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But
  seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things
  will be added to you. Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for
  tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own
  trouble. (ESV)

  James 4:13-14 - Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go into
  such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit—
  yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you
  are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. (ESV)

Jesus taught to overcome evil with good:

  Matthew 5:38-41 - You have heard that it was said, An eye for an eye and a
  tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But
  if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if
  anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well.
  And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. (ESV)

James understood Jesus' teaching regarding not resisting evil people and
overcoming evil with good:

  James 5:6 - You have condemned; you have murdered the righteous person. He
  does not resist you. (ESV)

Paul following and teaching Christ's teachings regarding overcoming evil with
good:

  Romans 12:19-21 - Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the
  wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the
  Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty,
  give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on
  his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. (ESV)

63. godliness

The word godliness, I think means, to act in a way fitting of having true
knowledge of our God, and of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, and preparing
oneself for eternity.

  Titus 1:1 - Paul, a bond-servant (G1401 doulos) of God (G2316 theos) and an
  apostle of Jesus (G2424 Iesous) Christ (G5547 Christos), for the faith
  (G4102 pistis) of those chosen of God (G2316 theos) and the knowledge
  (G1922 epignosis) of the truth (G225 aletheia) which is according to
  godliness (G2150 eusebeia),

Perfect godliness revealing God through Jesus Christ:

  I Timothy 3:16 - Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness: He
  was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels,
  proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory.
  (ESV)

  Isaiah 32:6 - For the fool speaks folly, and his heart is busy with
  iniquity, to practice ungodliness, to utter error concerning the LORD, to
  leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied, and to deprive the thirsty of
  drink. (ESV)

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Relevant verses                 Characteristics of godliness
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Titus 1:2                     Behaviour in accordance with true knowledge
about God
Isaiah 32:6, Romans 1:18      Disinclined towards wickedness; inclined to
practice righteousness
Isaiah 32:6, Romans 1:18      Speaks the truth about the Lord
Isaiah 32:6                   Takes care of their neighbour
Romans 1:21                   Honours God as God
Romans 1:21                   Gives thanks to God
Romans 1:18-22, Proverbs 1:7  Has the fear of God
I Timothy 3:8                 Knows God can see your heart
Cares that any person, even the worldly, may
I Timothy 2:1-4               be saved and come to the knowledge of the
truth
I Timothy 2:9, I Timothy 3:8  Not worldliness, knowing that humility
pleases God
I Timothy 6:10-11             Not worldliness, knowing that true riches are
in heaven. No love for money
I Timothy 2:10                Performs good works (works which are pleasing
to God)
I Timothy 3:11                Dignified, sober-minded
I Timothy 3:11                Faithful in all things
I Timothy 4:7-8               Profitable for all things (physical and
spiritual), present life and eternity
I Timothy 6:4, II Timothy     Has eyes set on God. Doesn't fall into vain,
| 16                          time-wasting arguments
II Timothy 3:5                Keeps themself accountable to God. Has a real
relationship with God.
Cooperates with Jesus purifying them, and
Titus 2:11-14                 employing them in good works, for eternal
life
Titus 1:2, Titus 2:11-14      Hopes for eternal life
II Peter 3:10-12              Prepares for eternity
II Peter 1:3                  Responds well to Jesus' supply to us of what
we need to live godly lives.
II Peter 1:5-7                Supplements steadfastness (helps us to be
more steadfast)
II Peter 1:5-7                Is supplemented by brotherly affection (in
accordance with true knowledge about God)
II Peter 2:6, I Corinthians   Obeys God, and lives righteously, and in love
| 18                          for one's neighbour, and flees from lust
Does not put Christ to the test. Clings to
I Corinthians 10:8-14         God, flees from idolatry, sexual immorality
and other sin
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

63.1. Verses

  Isaiah 32:6 - For a fool speaks nonsense, And his heart inclines toward
  wickedness: To practice ungodliness and to speak error against the Lord
  (H3068 Yhovah), To keep the hungry person unsatisfied And to withhold drink
  from the thirsty.

  Romans 1:18 - For the wrath of God (G2316 theos) is revealed from heaven
  (G3772 ouranos) against all (G3956 pas) ungodliness and unrighteousness of
  men who suppress the truth (G225 aletheia) in unrighteousness,

  Romans 11:26 - and so all (G3956 pas) Israel will be saved (G4982 sozo);
  just as it is written, “The Deliverer will come from Zion, He will remove
  ungodliness from Jacob.”

  I Timothy 2:1-4 - First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers,
  intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all
  who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life,
  godly and dignified in every way. This is good, and it is pleasing in the
  sight of God our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to
  the knowledge of the truth.

  I Timothy 2:10 - but rather by means of good works (G2041 ergon), as is
  proper for women making a claim to godliness.

  I Timothy 3:16 - By common confession, great is the mystery (G3466
  musterion) of godliness (G2150 eusebeia): He who (G3739 hos) was revealed
  in the flesh (G4561 sarx), Was vindicated in the Spirit (G4151 pneuma),
  Seen by angels, Proclaimed among the nations, Believed on in the world
  (G2889 kosmos), Taken up in glory (G1391 doxa).

  I Timothy 4:7-8 - But have nothing to do with worldly fables fit only for
  old women. On the other hand, discipline yourself for the purpose of
  godliness (G2150 eusebeia); for bodily discipline is only of little profit,
  but godliness (G2150 eusebeia) is profitable for all (G3956 pas) things
  (G3956 pas), since it holds promise for the present life (G2222 zoe) and
  also for the life to come.

  I Timothy 6:3-6 - If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree
  with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords
  with godliness, he is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He
  has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about words,
  which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, and constant
  friction among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the truth,
  imagining that godliness is a means of gain. But godliness (G2150 eusebeia)
  actually is a means of great gain when accompanied by contentment.

  I Timothy 6:10-11 - For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils.
  It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and
  pierced themselves with many pangs. But as for you, O man of God, flee
  these things. Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness,
  gentleness.

  II Timothy 2:16 - But avoid worldly and empty chatter, for it will lead to
  further ungodliness,

  II Timothy 3:5 - holding to a form of godliness (G2150 eusebeia), although
  they have denied its power (G1411 dunamis); Avoid such men as these.

  Titus 1:1 - Paul, a bond-servant (G1401 doulos) of God (G2316 theos) and an
  apostle of Jesus (G2424 Iesous) Christ (G5547 Christos), for the faith
  (G4102 pistis) of those chosen of God (G2316 theos) and the knowledge
  (G1922 epignosis) of the truth (G225 aletheia) which is according to
  godliness (G2150 eusebeia),

  Titus 2:11-14 - For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for
  all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and
  to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,
  waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God
  and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all
  lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who
  are zealous for good works.

Jesus has granted us what we need to live a godly life:

  II Peter 1:3 - seeing that His divine power (G1411 dunamis) has granted to
  us everything (G3956 pas) pertaining to life (G2222 zoe) and godliness
  (G2150 eusebeia), through the true (G1922 epignosis) knowledge (G1922
  epignosis) of Him who called us by His own glory (G1391 doxa) and
  excellence.

  II Peter 1:5-7 - For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your
  faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with
  self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with
  godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection
  with love.

  II Peter 3:10-12 - But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then
  the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be
  burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it
  will be exposed. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort
  of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for
  and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens
  will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as
  they burn!

64. 'Election' / predestination, theology etc. is a massive distraction, I think

I believe that here on earth, God wants us to choose Jesus. But from God's
perspective, who knows how it works.

  Isaiah 55:8-9 - For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your
  ways my ways, declares the LORD. For as the heavens are higher than the
  earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your
  thoughts. (ESV)

God can raise up children from anyone who has repentance and may grant being
a child of Abraham to anyone who walks in the footsteps of the faith that
Abraham had before he was circumcised.

  Luke 3:8 - Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say
  to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father. For I tell you, God is able
  from these stones to raise up children for Abraham.

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

We do have the ability to make choices:

  Isaiah 66:3 - He who slaughters an ox is like one who kills a man; he who
  sacrifices a lamb, like one who breaks a dog's neck; he who presents a
  grain offering, like one who offers pig's blood; he who makes a memorial
  offering of frankincense, like one who blesses an idol. These have chosen
  their own ways, and their soul delights in their abominations; (ESV)

A gift can be accepted or rejected - and this is a choice we can make:

  Romans 5:17 - If, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that
  one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the
  free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.
  (ESV)

Even the elect need help to obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with
eternal glory:

  II Timothy 2:10 - Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect,
  that they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with
  eternal glory. (ESV)

We should not lean on our own understanding:

  Isaiah 55:9 - For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways
  higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.

What we should do now is acknowledge the LORD, keep our eyes on Jesus, and
live godly lives (godliness is behaviour in accordance with the knowledge of
God, believe the truth and walk in that truth, love the light, walk in the
light, walk in the truth). Trust in the LORD to save us as we walk in the
light (in obedience):

  Proverbs 3:5-6 - Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not lean on
  your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make
  straight your paths. (ESV)

Although God chooses who He has mercy on, we should still have a godly and
humble response to God's mercy:

  Romans 9:10-16 - And not only so, but also when Rebecca had conceived
  children by one man, our forefather Isaac, though they were not yet born
  and had done nothing either good or bad—in order that God's purpose of
  election might continue, not because of works but because of his call— she
  was told, The older will serve the younger. As it is written, Jacob I
  loved, but Esau I hated. What shall we say then? Is there injustice on
  God's part? By no means! For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I
  have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then
  it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy.

We should be confident that God will continue to take care of us:

  Romans 8:29-39- For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be
  conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn
  among many brothers. And those whom he predestined he also called, and
  those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also
  glorified. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who
  can be against us? He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us
  all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall
  bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to
  condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died—more than that, who was
  raised—who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us.
  Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or
  distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? As
  it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long; we are
  regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more
  than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death
  nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor
  powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be
  able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.

God has good plans for us and we should submit to His wisdom, and obey Him:

  Isaiah 64:8 - But now, O Lord, you are our Father; we are the clay, and you
  are our potter; we are all the work of your hand.

  Romans 8:28 - And we know that for those who love God all things work
  together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose.

Who chooses who? I believe Jesus chose me and I also choose Jesus every day
but Jesus chose me first:

  John 15:16 - You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that
  you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that
  whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. (ESV)

  Romans 8:29 - For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be
  conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn
  among many brothers.

youtube.com: When Calvinism Goes Bad {Part 3} - Tim Conway {@illbehonest}
@time: 55 min 58 sec
Have you ever noticed how the evangelistic teaching of the apostolic
preachers in the Book of Acts never ever mention election once. And yet, the
epistles, which are written to God's people, rarely of devoid of it. Have you
ever noticed that? Calvin recognized that Scripture generally introduces the
doctrine of election to show Believers the security and certainty of their
salvation and to humble Christians by showing them who makes them to differ
from others. That is true. But when election is constantly introduced to the
lost it inevitably proves to be an obstruction in the minds of lost men and
women. I guarantee you the devil would use it that way.

God is the Creator, our Maker.

• For those who love God
• obedient to God
• For those who are called according to His purpose
• All things work together for good

God's ultimately the one in control of us but from our perspective we must
submit to His righteousness and His will and be obedient.

To make election sure, and to not fail, one must practice personal
righteousness and put a stop to sin.

  II Peter 1:10-11 - Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make
  your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you
  will never fall. For in this way there will be richly provided for you an
  entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

  Acts 13:14-16 - but they went on from Perga and came to Antioch in Pisidia.
  And on the Sabbath day they went into the synagogue and sat down. After the
  reading from the Law and the Prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent a
  message to them, saying, Brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for
  the people, say it. So Paul stood up, and motioning with his hand said: Men
  of Israel and you who fear God, listen. (ESV)

• The elect fear God
• They had soft hearts
• able to believe and obey
• The non-elect judge themselves unworthy of eternal life
• They had hard hearts
• unable to believe and obey

One thing is for sure. The elect do not have hard hearts. So I'd say if a
person's heart is not totally hard, then soften it.

youtube.com: God Is Our Savior from What? 1 Timothy 1:1-2, Part 2 @time: 2
min 3 sec
He does everything he does as an apostle to help people (who turn out to be
God's elect) obtain salvation.

  II Timothy 2:10 - Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect,
  that they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with
  eternal glory. (ESV)

A heart not easy to be moved with virtuous affections:

  Deuteronomy 15:7 - If among you, one of your brothers should become poor,
  in any of your towns within your land that the Lord your God is giving you,
  you shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor
  brother, (ESV)

  Mark 3:4-5 - And He said to them, “Is it lawful to do good or to do harm on
  the Sabbath, to save a life or to kill?” But they kept silent. After
  looking around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, He
  said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” And he stretched it out, and his
  hand was restored. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Do I Have a Hard Heart?

  Mark 8:17 - And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why are you discussing
  the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are
  your hearts hardened? (ESV)

  II Chronicles 36:12-13 - He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord his
  God. He did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet, who spoke from
  the mouth of the Lord. He also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, who
  had made him swear by God. He stiffened his neck and hardened his heart
  against turning to the Lord, the God of Israel. (ESV)

  Romans 2:4 - Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and
  forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead
  you to repentance? (ESV)

  Zechariah 7:12 - They made their hearts diamond-hard lest they should hear
  the law and the words that the Lord of hosts had sent by his Spirit through
  the former prophets. Therefore great anger came from the Lord of hosts.
  (ESV)

If we have a hard heart, we should ask for a new one:

  Ezekiel 36:26 - And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will
  put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and
  give you a heart of flesh.

Don't let your heart go hard - find a community of encouraging believers -
this place looks cool: https://www.youtube.com/@jesusimage:

  Hebrews 3:13 - But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called
  today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.

  Acts 13:46-48 - And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, It was
  necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you. Since you thrust it
  aside and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning
  to the Gentiles. For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, I have made you
  a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the
  earth. And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and
  glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal
  life believed. (ESV)

I do believe, however, that cooperation is generally required on the part of
the believer:

• Before regeneration, and
• After regeneration

Before regeneration, I was trying hard to repent of my sin by trying to obey
the 10 commandments from the heart. And I would say I was also making
progress. After regeneration, I had to learn to walk in Jesus' commandments,
and to submit to His righteousness.

To be sanctified by faith in Jesus is an applied process, I think:

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness
  of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. (ESV)

Obeying Jesus Christ, and having love perfected in us is the most important
part of sanctification, I think:

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

In similar fashion to Jesus continually obeying Father God as he endured
suffering, I think we should learn to submit and follow Jesus' commandments:

  Hebrews 5:7-10 - In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and
  supplications, with loud cries and tears, to him who was able to save him
  from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. Although he was a
  son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being made perfect,
  he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him, being
  designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.

The 1689 Baptist confession affirms that the problem of corruption remains
after regeneration:

|  Paragraph 5
| 
|  The corruption of nature, during this life,
|  does remain in those that are regenerated;13
|  and although it be through Christ pardoned and
|  mortified, yet both itself, and the first
|  motions thereof, are truly and properly sin.14
| 
|  13 Rom. 7:18,23; Eccles. 7:20; 1 John 1:8
|   14 Rom. 7:23–25; Gal. 5:17

64.1. My experience in turning to love Jesus and obey Jesus

I believe that after being born-again of the spirit, I had (with very little
knowledge of Jesus' commandments) had to learn Jesus' commandments and apply
them, and I believe the Holy Spirit taught me to obey Jesus as I read Jesus'
sayings and was subsequently tested on those sayings. For example, if I read
that we must give to all who ask, and then the Lord sets up a situation where
someone asks for money, then I have a choice to obey Jesus, which means
resisting those who try to deter me from obeying Jesus. Upon being tested,
someone would offer worldly wisdom in an attempt to deter me from following
Jesus, and as I obey God I am led by the Holy Spirit, and taught by the Holy
Spirit. And this is an ongoing process. I say this for others' sake to
explain how I have come to know how faith in Jesus, following Jesus, works
practically, that it is more than mere intellectual belief to be led by the
Spirit, but it is also obedience, and a process of sanctification, and
walking in the light which involves walking in love characteristic of
Christ's love.

So I was born-again of the Spirit and when that happened I was given some
very strong faith/knowledge that God exists, but I still had to seek Jesus
because the Bible says that anyone who claims to know Jesus but doesn't walk
in His commandments is not telling the truth, and I want to come to know
Jesus.

  I John 2:3-4 - And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we
  keep his commandments. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his
  commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, (ESV)

When people say, "Is there anyone who does not know Jesus yet? Please put up
your hand." they are effectively saying, "Is there anyone who does not follow
Jesus' commandments yet? Please put up your hand."

Believing in your heart is an initial act of obedience before continuing in
the teaching of Christ. If we believe in Him we have obeyed Him, but belief
doesn't end there:

  John 14:1 - “Do not let your heart be troubled; believe (G4100 pisteuo) in
  God, believe (G4100 pisteuo) also in Me. (NASB)

  Acts 28:27 - For the heart of this people has become dull, And with their
  ears they scarcely hear, And they have closed their eyes; Otherwise they
  might see with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with
  their heart and return, And I would heal them.”’

God wants everyone who comes to Jesus and place their trust in Him to have
eternal life:

  John 6:40-47 - For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks
  on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise
  him up on the last day. So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, I
  am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is not this Jesus, the
  son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have
  come down from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among
  yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him.
  And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the Prophets, And
  they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the
  Father comes to me— not that anyone has seen the Father except he who is
  from God; he has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever
  believes has eternal life. (ESV)

If you hear Jesus' word and believe Father God, then you have eternal life,
and don't come into judgement. I don't doubt it. We must continue trusting.
But the enemy will certainly try to condemn the person after they are
born-again.

  Matthew 17:5 - He was still speaking when, behold, a bright cloud
  overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved Son,
  with whom I am well pleased; listen to him. (ESV)

Trusting Jesus' words we do not come into judgement, but change direction,
and instead our destiny is life eternal. We do not come into judgement. Jesus
is the judge of that:

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word (191.
  akouó) and believes (4100. pisteuó) him who sent me has eternal life. He
  does not come (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed (3327.
  metabain) from death to life. (ESV)

I think John 5:24 reads that the one who is trusting the words spoken through
Jesus, trusting God, trusting Jesus is holds/posesses eternal life and has
passed from death into life.

2064. erchomai
to come, go

3327. metabain
to pass over, withdraw, depart

It's imperative that as we go ahead, we must abide in the teaching of Christ,
or we won't have God (Jehovah God), and God is love and love comes from God,
so we need to abide in Christ's teachings, by belief and by obedience. For
example, in Mark 10:18, Jesus affirmed that God is Good. Therefore when we
read this, we must also be sanctified by this truth, affirming and coming
into agreement that God is Good. Also, Jesus commanded us to love one another
as He loved us John 13:34-35:

  II John 1:9-10 - Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has
  both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
  (ESV)

64.2. Repentance includes bearing fruit and being raised up as a child for
Abraham

John the Baptist taught repentance and love for one's neighbour before
receiving the baptisim of the Holy Spirit:

  Luke 3:3-8 - And he went into all the region around the Jordan, proclaiming
  a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. As it is written in
  the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, The voice of one crying in the
  wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. Every
  valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and
  the crooked shall become straight, and the rough places shall become level
  ways, and all flesh shall see the salvation of God. He said therefore to
  the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, You brood of vipers! Who
  warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruits in keeping with
  repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our
  father. For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children
  for Abraham.

Regeneration is the sovereign work of the Holy Spirit, though. AMEN!!
Nevertheless, I believe in allowing Jesus Christ to be my Lord and being
sanctified through obedience to Jesus:

  John 3:5-8 - Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born
  of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is
  born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
  Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born again. The wind blows
  where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes
  from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.

  John 6:45-47 - It is written in the Prophets, And they will all be taught
  by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me —
  not that anyone has seen the Father except he who is from God; he has seen
  the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes (G4100 pisteuo)
  has eternal life.

Also, I believe that this is what God actually wants from us - to seek Him
and worship Him of our own volition.

  Romans 11:7-10 - What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking.
  The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened, as it is written, God
  gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see and ears that would
  not hear, down to this very day. And David says, Let their table become a
  snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them; let their
  eyes be darkened so that they cannot see, and bend their backs forever.

The Gentiles should not harden their own hearts. Neither should the Jews.

  Psalms 95:8 - do not harden your hearts, as at Meribah, as on the day at
  Massah in the wilderness,

  Hebrews 3:8 - do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of
  testing in the wilderness,

  Hebrews 3:15 - As it is said, Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden
  your hearts as in the rebellion.

  Hebrews 4:7 - again he appoints a certain day, Today, saying through David
  so long afterward, in the words already quoted, Today, if you hear his
  voice, do not harden your hearts.

God puts the fear of Him into the elect's heart.

  Jeremiah 32:40 - I will make with them an everlasting covenant, that I will
  not turn away from doing good to them. And I will put the fear of me in
  their hearts, that they may not turn from me. (ESV)

I still think there is co-operation by the believer before and after
spiritual regeneration.

Having heard the truth, the Spirit sanctifies us through our obedience to the
Spirit, and are we are conformed to holiness, not to impurity:

  I Peter 1:14-16 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy.

We purify ourselves as we have faith in Jesus:

  I John 3:3 - And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is
  pure.

Having purified ourselves by obedience to the truth:

This here says we must obey for the sake of purification of our souls even
after being born-again:

  I Peter 1:22-23 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable,
  through the living and abiding word of God;

And Jesus instructs us to have an obedient heart if we want to know that
Jesus' teaching is from God:

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. (ESV)

64.3. God loved us first

  I John 4:8-11 - Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is
  love. In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his
  only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. In this is
  love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to
  be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also
  ought to love one another.

  Isaiah 64:8 - But now, O LORD, you are our Father; we are the clay, and you
  are our potter; we are all the work of your hand. (ESV)

64.3.1. God's love is greater

  Romans 8:35 - Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall
  tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or
  danger, or sword?

  Romans 8:39 - nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will
  be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.

64.4. God was faithful to us first

64.4.1. God's faithfulness is greater

  Romans 3:3-4 - What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness
  nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means! Let God be true though every
  one were a liar, as it is written, That you may be justified in your words,
  and prevail when you are judged.

  II Timothy 2:13 - if we are faithless, he remains faithful— for he cannot
  deny himself.

Today <2024-06-02 Sun> in the morning I got a picture of the Star of David.
To me that means: "God is faithful".

Song
Amy Grant - El-Shaddai

I still get encouragements such as this from God.

I also got a bunch of pictures of my family.

64.4.2. We can rest in God and don't need to trust in our own understanding too
much

  Psalms 131:1-3 - O LORD, my heart is not lifted up; my eyes are not raised
  too high; I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous
  for me. A Song of Ascents. Of David. But I have calmed and quieted my soul,
  like a weaned child with its mother; like a weaned child is my soul within
  me. O Israel, hope in the LORD from this time forth and forevermore. (ESV)

In following Jesus, the Apostles were perplexed sometimes:

  II Corinthians 4:8 - We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed;
  perplexed, but not driven to despair; (ESV)

That's because we don't have the full picture:

  I Corinthians 13:9 - For we know in part and we prophesy in part, (ESV)

  Proverbs 3:5-6 - Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not lean on
  your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make
  straight your paths. (ESV)

  Isaiah 55:8-9 - For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your
  ways my ways, declares the LORD. For as the heavens are higher than the
  earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your
  thoughts. (ESV)

God has made Christ Jesus our wisdom:

  I Corinthians 1:30 - He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom
  God made our wisdom and our righteousness and sanctification and
  redemption. (ESV)

64.5. The Way is available for everyone, but not everyone ends up walking it

Jesus made the Way - He is the Way:

  Romans 5:18-19 - Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all
  men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all
  men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by
  the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.

• for all men
• the many

64.6. We have free will, but the Holy Spirit helps us and dwells with us and
comes to be in us

We can't come to Jesus unless Father God draws us to Jesus. While it is true
that we need God to draw us, I believe we should still choose Jesus, and
follow Jesus as Jesus' sheep:

  John 6:44 - No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him.
  And I will raise him up on the last day. (ESV)

We're supposed to do the will of God from the heart:

  Ephesians 6:6 - not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as
  servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,

When we hear Jesus' voice, we must open the door. We have free will to
receive or reject Jesus - we must be obedient believers:

  Revelation of John 3:20 - Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone
  hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him,
  and he with me. (ESV)

It was unbelief which led to these people's sin of idolatry and covetousness
which prevented them from entering into God's rest:

  Hebrews 3:7-15 - Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, Today, if you hear his
  voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of testing
  in the wilderness, where your fathers put me to the test and saw my works
  for forty years. Therefore I was provoked with that generation, and said,
  They always go astray in their heart; they have not known my ways. As I
  swore in my wrath, They shall not enter my rest. Take care, brothers, lest
  there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away
  from the living God. But exhort one another every day, as long as it is
  called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
  For we share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to
  the end. As it is said, Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your
  hearts as in the rebellion. (ESV)

  Hebrews 3:16-19 - For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not
  all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for
  forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the
  wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest,
  but to those who were disobedient? So we see that they were unable to enter
  because of unbelief. (ESV)

  Hebrews 4:7-11 - again he appoints a certain day, Today, saying through
  David so long afterward, in the words already quoted, Today, if you hear
  his voice, do not harden your hearts. For if Joshua had given them rest,
  God would not have spoken of another day later on. So then, there remains a
  Sabbath rest for the people of God, for whoever has entered God's rest has
  also rested from his works as God did from his. Let us therefore strive to
  enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience.
  (ESV)

It was idolatry that was the disobedience which prevented these from entering
into God's rest:

  I Corinthians 10:1-14 - I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were
  all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized
  into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual
  food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the
  spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. Nevertheless,
  with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the
  wilderness. Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might
  not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were; as
  it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. We
  must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and twenty-three
  thousand fell in a single day. We must not put Christ to the test, as some
  of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble, as some of them
  did and were destroyed by the Destroyer. Now these things happened to them
  as an example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the
  end of the ages has come. Therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands
  take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common
  to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your
  ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape,
  that you may be able to endure it. Therefore, my beloved, flee from
  idolatry. (ESV)

If you keep Jesus' commandments then the Spirit of Truth will come to you,
and help you, and be in you. If we obey Jesus, the Holy Spirit helps us, even
before He's inside us:

  John 14:15-17 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. (ESV)

Since the Holy Spirit dwells with us even before He is in us, I do understand
that the Holy Spirit may seem to be more force-like before the Holy Spirit
dwells inside and we know Him as a person.

As an example, as I was talking to a couple of JWs this year, a leaflet
containing the gospel message tumbled down the footpath and stopped at my
feet. I picked it up and we conferred about it.

Paul was resisting the goading of the Holy Spirit:

  Acts 26:14 - And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice
  saying to me in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting
  me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads. (ESV)

Being born of the Spirit is something which is genuinely unpredictable but we
can sense its coming and going. It's not the same thing as getting someone to
pray a sinner's prayer, for example, otherwise Jesus would not have used this
analogy. We can sense it (hear it's sound. Me making testimony of being born
of the Spirit is me making the sound, I guess), but we don't know where it
comes form or where it goes:

  John 3:3-8 - Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born again he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can
  a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's
  womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That
  which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit
  is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born again. The
  wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know
  where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of
  the Spirit. (ESV)

We should aim for Jesus' commandments to become unburdensome. So I would use
the analogy of entering a current of water (like the Turtle Cruising in
Finding Nemo) While in the Holy Spirit, Jesus' commandments should be
unburdensome, and having the Holy Spirit in us helps us to keep Jesus'
commandments even when we face resistance from the world:

  I John 5:3 - For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments.
  And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

It appears there is evidence that we live by the Spirit even before we walk
by the Spirit. We must also walk by the Spirit:

  Galatians 5:22-25 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
  patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control;
  against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus
  have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the
  Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. (ESV)

  I John 3:2-7 - Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has
  not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him,
  because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him
  purifies himself as he is pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning
  also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared
  to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him
  keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known
  him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices
  righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. (ESV)

We obey Jesus to be saved:

  Hebrews 5:9 - And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal
  salvation to all who obey him,

We obey Jesus to receive the Holy Spirit:

  Acts 5:32 - And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
  Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him.

Jesus certainly suggests here that by believing and obeying Jesus'
commandments, we can receive the Holy Spirit. Walking by Jesus' words and
commandments is walking by the Spirit:

  John 6:63-65 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail.
  The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some
  of you who do not believe. (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those
  were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. ) And He was
  saying, “For this reason I have said to you, that no one can come to Me
  unless it has been granted him from the Father.”

This definitely indicates that we should try to keep Jesus Christ's
commandments even before receiving the Holy Spirit inside of us.

64.7. We have free will. We must believe God

We may ask God for a willing spirit:

  Psalms 51:10-12 - Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right
  spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your
  Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me
  with a willing spirit. (ESV)

Obedience is good:

  Psalms 40:6-8 - Sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but you have
  given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin offering you have not
  required. Then I said, Behold, I have come; in the scroll of the book it is
  written of me: I desire to do your will, O my God; your law is within my
  heart. (ESV)

There is intellectual belief and there is experiential belief, and we could
have both, by having both belief and obedience to Jesus. To believe, we must
be seeking God, not glory from one another:

  John 5:44 - How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another
  and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? (ESV)

Nevertheless, if a person hears the word of Christ, and believes the word of
Christ, they are believing the truth, and a natural consequence of that
should be the development of faith because while believing the truth, other
things become more apparent:

• youtube.com: Spiritual Warfare: How to Put on the Armor of God @time: 1
min 35 sec

  Romans 10:17 - So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of
  Christ. (ESV)

The Scriptures say Abraham believed God, and it doesn't say God believed God.
We must believe God:

  Romans 4:3 - For what does the Scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it
  was counted to him as righteousness. (ESV)

The Scriptures say Abraham obeyed God - we must become obedient believers:

  Genesis 26:5 - because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge, my
  commandments, my statutes, and my laws. (ESV)

Also, in advance of being given the promise, Abraham was faithful to God:

  Genesis 14:23 - that I would not take a thread or a sandal strap or
  anything that is yours, lest you should say, I have made Abram rich.

That is when God rewarded Abraham for Abraham's faithfulness, with a promise:

  Genesis 15:1-6 - After these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a
  vision: Fear not, Abram, I am your shield; your reward shall be very great.
  But Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me, for I continue
  childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus? And Abram said,
  Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will
  be my heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him: This man shall
  not be your heir; your very own son shall be your heir. And he brought him
  outside and said, Look toward heaven, and number the stars, if you are able
  to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. And he
  believed (539. aman) the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness.

Rewards are for people who choose to do the right thing.

It doesn't say, God rewarded God. God said that Abraham's reward shall be
very great. God rewarded Abraham.

64.8. Seeking God

Blessed are those who like being around Jesus and trust Him:

  Luke 7:23 - And blessed is the one who is not offended by me.

Blessed are those who have believed before having come to see and know for
certain:

  John 20:29 - Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me?
  Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.􇩙

Blessed are those who ask and seek for a blessing:

  Matthew 7:7-8 - Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find;
  knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and
  the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened.

64.9. Run the race

  Hebrews 12:1 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,

  I Corinthians 9:24 - Do you not know that in a race all the runners
  compete, but only one receives the prize? So run that you may obtain it.

  Luke 13:24 - Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you,
  will seek to enter and will not be able.

  Galatians 5:7 - You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the
  truth? (ESV)

  Philippians 3:13-14 - Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my
  own. But one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and straining forward
  to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward
  call of God in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

  II Timothy 4:6-9 - For I am already being poured out as a drink offering,
  and the time of my departure has come. I have fought the good fight, I have
  finished the race, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for
  me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will
  award to me on that Day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved
  his appearing. Do your best to come to me soon.

64.9.1. Steadfastness

  James 1:1-4 - James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the
  twelve tribes in the Dispersion: Greetings. Count it all joy, my brothers,
  when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of
  your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full
  effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. (ESV)

  II Peter 1:5-10 - For this very reason, make every effort to supplement
  your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with
  self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with
  godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection
  with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep
  you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus
  Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is
  blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins.
  Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and
  election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall.
  (ESV)

  James 1:12 - Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when
  he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has
  promised to those who love him. (ESV)

  James 5:11 - Behold, we consider those blessed who remained steadfast. You
  have heard of the steadfastness of Job, and you have seen the purpose of
  the Lord, how the Lord is compassionate and merciful. (ESV)

  Titus 2:1-8 - But as for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine. Older
  men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in
  love, and in steadfastness. Older women likewise are to be reverent in
  behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is
  good, and so train the young women to love their husbands and children, to
  be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind, and submissive to their
  own husbands, that the word of God may not be reviled. Likewise, urge the
  younger men to be self-controlled. Show yourself in all respects to be a
  model of good works, and in your teaching show integrity, dignity, and
  sound speech that cannot be condemned, so that an opponent may be put to
  shame, having nothing evil to say about us. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 15:58 - Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast,
  immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the
  Lord your labor is not in vain. (ESV)

  Colossians 1:21-23 - And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind,
  doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death,
  in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him,
  if indeed you continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting
  from the hope of the gospel that you heard, which has been proclaimed in
  all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, became a minister. (ESV)

64.10. God has planned in advance our salvation

64.10.1. Grace alone - sola gratia (by grace alone) AMEN!!

  I Corinthians 1:30 - But by His doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became
  to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and
  redemption, (NASB)

  Ephesians 1:3 - Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who
  has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly
  places, (ESV)

  Ephesians 1:4-5 - just as He chose (G1586 eklegomai) us in Him before
  (G4253 pro) the foundation of the world (G2889 kosmos), that we would be
  holy and blameless before Him. In love He predestined (G4309 proorizo) us
  to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the kind
  intention (G2107 eudokia) of His will, (NASB)

|  :  1586  eklegomai  ek-leg'-om-ahee
| 
|   middle voice from 1537 and 3004 (in its primary sense); to
|   select:--make choice, choose (out), chosen.
|   see GREEK for 1537
|   see GREEK for 3004

|  :  4309  proorizo  pro-or-id'-zo
| 
|   from 4253 and 3724; to limit in advance, i.e. (figuratively)
|   predetermine:--determine before, ordain, predestinate.
|   see GREEK for 4253
|   see GREEK for 3724

In the fullness of time, all things in heaven and earth are united to God:

  Ephesians 1:10 - as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in
  him, things in heaven and things on earth.

Given that we have an inheritance, it's evident that God must have
predestined us:

  Ephesians 1:11-14 - In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been
  predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according
  to the counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ
  might be to the praise of his glory. In him you also, when you heard the
  word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were
  sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our
  inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory.

The inheritance is salvation:

  Hebrews 1:14 - Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for
  the sake of those who are to inherit salvation? (ESV)

64.11. We are fellow workers with God. It's by God's power that our work
flourishes

  Ephesians 3:16 - that according to the riches of his glory he may grant you
  to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being,

64.11.1. Without God we can do nothing

  I Corinthians 3:6-9 - I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth.
  So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who
  gives the growth. He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will
  receive his wages according to his labor. For we are God's fellow workers.
  You are God's field, God's building.

  John 1:3 - All things were made through him, and without him was not any
  thing made that was made. (ESV)

We work in God's field:

  John 4:34-38 - Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who
  sent me and to accomplish his work. Do you not say, There are yet four
  months, then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and
  see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who reaps is
  receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and
  reaper may rejoice together. For here the saying holds true, One sows and
  another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others
  have labored, and you have entered into their labor.

64.11.2. God's power through Jesus, through the man's faith in Jesus' name made
the man walk

  Acts 3:12 - And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of
  Israel, why marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, as though
  by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk? (KJV)

The man had faith - faith enters into the truth / receives from God:

  Acts 3:5-8 - And he began to give them his attention, expecting to receive
  something from them. But Peter said, “I do not possess silver and gold, but
  what I do have I give to you: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene–
  walk!” And seizing him by the right hand, he raised him up; and immediately
  his feet and his ankles were strengthened. With a leap he stood upright and
  began to walk; and he entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and
  praising God.

Through Peter, Jesus made the man walk through Jesus' own power and Jesus'
holiness:

  Acts 3:6-7,11-12 - But Peter said, I have no silver and gold, but what I do
  have I give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and
  walk! And he took him by the right hand and raised him up, and immediately
  his feet and ankles were made strong. While he clung to Peter and John, all
  the people ran together to them in the portico called Solomon's, astounded.
  And when Peter saw it he addressed the people: Men of Israel, why do you
  wonder at this, or why do you stare at us, as though by our own power or
  piety we have made him walk? (ESV)

The faith which comes through Jesus which the man had in Jesus' name is what
healed the man:

  Acts 3:16 - And on the basis of faith in His name, it is the name of Jesus
  which has strengthened this man whom you see and know; and the faith which
  comes through Him has given him this perfect health in the presence of you
  all.

There are other instances of this - it's faith in Jesus which makes a person
well and receives forgiveness and salvation from Jesus:

  Mark 5:34 - And he said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well; go
  in peace, and be healed of your disease. (ESV)

  Luke 7:47-50 - Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are
  forgiven-for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.
  And he said to her, Your sins are forgiven. Then those who were at table
  with him began to say among themselves, Who is this, who even forgives
  sins? And he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you; go in peace.
  (ESV)

65. Father God

  Amos 5:8 - He who made the Pleiades and Orion, and turns deep darkness into
  the morning and darkens the day into night, who calls for the waters of the
  sea and pours them out on the surface of the earth, the LORD is his name;
  (ESV)

|  6213              3598         3685          2015
|  ‘ō·śêh            ḵî·māh       ū·ḵə·sîl,     wə·hō·pêḵ
|  עשה               כימה         וכסיל         והפך
|  He made           the Pleiades and Orion     and He turns
|  V‑Qal‑Prtcpl‑msc  N‑fs         Conj‑w | N‑ms Conj‑w | V‑Qal‑Prtcpl‑ms

|  1242               6757                3117          3915
|  lab·bō·qer         ṣal·mā·weṯ,         wə·yō·wm      lay·lāh
|  לבקר               צלמות               ויום          לילה
|  into morning       the shadow of death and the day   as night
|  Prep‑l, Art | N‑ms N‑ms                Conj‑w | N‑ms N‑ms

|  2821             7121                  4325
|  heḥ·šîḵ;         haq·qō·w·rê           lə·mê-
|  החשיך            הקורא                 למי־
|  makes dark       He calls              for the waters
|  V‑Hifil‑Perf‑3ms Art | V‑Qal‑Prtcpl‑ms Prep‑l | N‑mpc

|  3220       8210
|  hay·yām,   way·yiš·pə·ḵêm
|  הים        וישפכם
|  of the sea and pours them out
|  Art | N‑ms Conj‑w | V‑Qal‑ConsecImperf‑3ms | 3mp

|  5921 6440     776          3068        8034
|  ‘al- pə·nê    hā·’ā·reṣ    Yah·weh     šə·mōw.       s
|  על־  פני      הארץ         יהוה        שמו׃          ס
|  on   the face of the earth Yahweh      [is] His name  -
|  Prep N‑cpc    Art | N‑fs   N‑proper‑ms N‑msc | 3ms   Punc

  II Chronicles 15:3-4 - For a long time Israel was without the true God, and
  without a teaching priest and without law, but when in their distress they
  turned to the Lord, the God of Israel, and sought him, he was found by
  them.

  Jeremiah 10:10 - But the Lord is the true God; he is the living God and the
  everlasting King. At his wrath the earth quakes, and the nations cannot
  endure his indignation.

  Deuteronomy 10:14 - Behold, to the LORD your God belong heaven and the
  heaven of heavens, the earth with all that is in it. (ESV)

  Ephesians 3:9-11 - and to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of
  the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things, so that through
  the church the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers
  and authorities in the heavenly places. This was according to the eternal
  purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord,

  Romans 1:18-25 - For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all
  ungodliness (763. asebeia) and unrighteousness (93. adikia) of men, who by
  their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God
  is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible
  attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly
  perceived, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have
  been made. So they are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did
  not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their
  thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they
  became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images
  resembling mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles. Therefore God
  gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring
  of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth about
  God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the
  Creator, who is blessed forever! Amen.

  Deuteronomy 7:9 - Know therefore that the LORD your God is God, the
  faithful God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him
  and keep his commandments, to a thousand generations, (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: To Him Be Glory Forever

  Romans 11:33-36 - Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of
  God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways! For
  who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor? Or who
  has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through
  him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. (ESV)

65.1. Jesus is the Only Way to Father God

  John 14:1-6 - Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also
  in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have
  told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a
  place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I
  am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said
  to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?
  Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes
  to the Father except through me.

We must get to know God through knowing Jesus:

  John 14:7-9 - If you had known me, you would have known my Father also.
  From now on you do know him and have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord,
  show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been
  with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me
  has seen the Father. How can you say, Show us the Father?

We want to know Jesus experientially because Jesus has made us His own:

  Philippians 3:12 - Not that I have already obtained this or am already
  perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me
  his own. (ESV)

A relationship is formed between the obedient person and God:

• Get to know Jesus by following His commandments and being obedient and
willing to do God's will.
• But as we do God's will, God comes to know us (it's simultaneous):

  Galatians 4:8-9 - Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to
  those that by nature are not gods. But now that you have come to know God,
  or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and
  worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be
  once more?

65.2. The life that Father God gave us is in His Son, Jesus Christ

  I John 4:8-11 - Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is
  love. In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his
  only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. In this is
  love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to
  be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also
  ought to love one another.

65.2.1. God made Himself knowable by sending Jesus Christ, who has made Father
God known

  John 1:14 - And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us, and we saw His
  glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and
  truth.

God is knowable through having faith in Jesus Christ:

  John 1:18 - No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's
  side, he has made him known.

  Exodus 33:18-23 - Moses said, Please show me your glory. And he said, I
  will make all my goodness pass before you and will proclaim before you my
  name The Lord. And I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will
  show mercy on whom I will show mercy. But, he said, you cannot see my face,
  for man shall not see me and live. And the Lord said, Behold, there is a
  place by me where you shall stand on the rock, and while my glory passes by
  I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and I will cover you with my hand
  until I have passed by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my
  back, but my face shall not be seen.

Grace, mercy, and the eternal life which God has given us is in Jesus Christ.
He is the bread of life:

  II John 1:3 - Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father
  and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son, in truth and love.

  I John 5:11 - And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and
  this life is in his Son.

I confess that God was acting through Jesus Christ of Nazareth as He walked
the earth in the flesh, around 2000 years ago, and that God is still working
through us who are in Christ Jesus.

  Philippians 2:13 - for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work
  for his good pleasure. (ESV)

  John 10:32 - Jesus answered them, “I showed you many good works from the
  Father; for which of them are you stoning Me?”

65.2.2. The testimony of God that he has borne concerning his Son

Whoever has faith in the Son of God has the testimony in himself.

  I John 5:9-13 - If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is
  greater, for this is the testimony of God that he has borne concerning his
  Son. Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the Son of
  God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God has made him
  a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has borne
  concerning his Son. And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal
  life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life; whoever
  does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these things to
  you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know that you
  have eternal life.

65.2.3. We must be in Him, Jesus Christ

  I John 5:18-20 - We know that everyone who has been born of God does not
  keep on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one
  does not touch him. We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies
  in the power of the evil one. And we know that the Son of God has come and
  has given us understanding, so that we may know him who is true; and we are
  in him who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal
  life.

We know that we abide in Him because He has given us of His Spirit:

  James 1:17 - Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above,
  coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or
  shifting shadow.

  I John 4:13-17 - By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because
  he has given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father
  has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that
  Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God.

  Acts 2:33 - Therefore having been exalted to the right hand of God, and
  having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, He has
  poured forth this which you both see and hear.

For the day of judgement, we must seek to:

• abide in His love
• be loving as He loves

We should be like Jesus while we are in this world:

  I John 4:16-17 - So we have come to know and to believe the love that God
  has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God
  abides in him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

Abide in His love:

  I John 4:10 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved
  us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.

Be loving as He loves:

  II John 1:4-6 - I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in
  the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father. And now I ask you, dear
  lady—not as though I were writing you a new commandment, but the one we
  have had from the beginning—that we love one another. And this is love,
  that we walk according to his commandments; this is the commandment, just
  as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it.

There are those who have faith, and those who betray. Betrayal is counter to
having faith. Faith includes belief, obedience and faithfulness:

  John 6:63-65 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail.
  The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some
  of you who do not believe. (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those
  were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. ) And He was
  saying, “For this reason I have said to you, that no one can come to Me
  unless it has been granted him from the Father.”

65.2.4. Father God was always with Jesus

  John 1:1 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. (ESV)

  John 16:25-32- I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The
  hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but
  will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my
  name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf;
  for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have
  believed that I came from God. I came from the Father and have come into
  the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father. His
  disciples said, Ah, now you are speaking plainly and not using figurative
  speech! Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to
  question you; this is why we believe that you came from God. Jesus answered
  them, Do you now believe? Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come,
  when you will be scattered, each to his own home, and will leave me alone.
  Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me.

65.2.5. Our will must be aligned with God's will - We start by desiring to do
His will

So put into practice Jesus Christ's commandments, and line up your will line
up with God's will:

  I John 5:14-15 - And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that
  if we ask anything according to his will he hears us. And if we know that
  he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we
  have asked of him.

  III John 1:11 - Beloved, do not imitate evil but imitate good. Whoever does
  good is from God; whoever does evil has not seen God.

We must be imitators of Christ Jesus. See what Paul is doing as an example of
imitating Christ. We repent from sin, we do what God says, we are accountable
to God with His precepts and are doers of His commandments, we forgive others
as we've been forgiven and we love others as we've been loved, and we have
our minds set on heavenly things and the promises of God:

  Philippians 3:12-21 - Not that I have already obtained this or am already
  perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me
  his own. Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one
  thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies
  ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God
  in Christ Jesus. Let those of us who are mature think this way, and if in
  anything you think otherwise, God will reveal that also to you. Only let us
  hold true to what we have attained. Brothers, join in imitating me, and
  keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us.
  For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears,
  walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction, their god
  is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly
  things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior,
  the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his
  glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to
  himself. (ESV)

If we love one another [as He loved us]:

  I John 4:12 - No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides
  in us and his love is perfected in us.

We must be drawn to Jesus Christ, who is the bread of life. We do the will of
God and Jesus Christ will raise us on the last day:

  John 6:44-48 - No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws
  him. And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the
  Prophets, And they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and
  learned from the Father comes to me— not that anyone has seen the Father
  except he who is from God; he has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to
  you, whoever believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life.

We must have faith in Jesus Christ and the words He has spoken:

  John 6:57-58 - As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the
  Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This is
  the bread that came down from heaven, not as the fathers ate and died.
  Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever.

Don't betray Jesus. Continue walking with Jesus:

  John 6:63-69 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail.
  The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some
  of you who do not believe. (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those
  were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. ) And He was
  saying, “For this reason I have said to you, that no one can come to Me
  unless it has been granted him from the Father.” After this many of his
  disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. So Jesus said to the
  Twelve, Do you want to go away as well? Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to
  whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, and we have believed,
  and have come to know, that you are the Holy One of God.

65.2.6. The Holy Spirit testifies about Jesus

  John 15:26 - “When the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the
  Father, that is the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, He will
  testify about Me,

https://web.archive.org/web/20220402091720/https://mullikine.github.io/posts/dream-the-way-the-truth-the-life/

The Holy Spirit is a person, and is a He:

  John 14:26 - But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in
  my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all
  that I have said to you.

65.2.7. We must do God's will

  John 4:32-34 - But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know
  about. So the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him
  something to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who
  sent me and to accomplish his work. (ESV)

65.2.8. We must walk in His commandments

If we want God to make His home with us, we must keep Jesus' words, and obey
His commandments:

  John 14:23-25 - Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my
  word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our
  home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the
  word that you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me. These things I
  have spoken to you while I am still with you.

In the following case, I think that obedience would have come before belief
as if the disciples had loved Him then they would have rejoiced, but that
Jesus explains things in advance so that we will believe when we see. Jesus
tells us in advance that He goes to the Father, and will come to us, so that
we will believe:

  John 14:27-29 - Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the
  world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let
  them be afraid. You heard me say to you, I am going away, and I will come
  to you. If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the
  Father, for the Father is greater than I. And now I have told you before it
  takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe.

Faith is a lifestyle. It's walking in the truth:

  II John 1:4-6 - I was very glad to find some of your children walking in
  truth, just as we have received commandment to do from the Father. And now
  I ask you, dear lady—not as though I were writing you a new commandment,
  but the one we have had from the beginning—that we love one another. And
  this is love, that we walk according to his commandments; this is the
  commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should
  walk in it.

God always preferred for people to walk in obedient, loving, faith to Him
over offering burnt sacrifices to him while walking disobediently and
faithlessly. Now we have Jesus we are redeemed to walk in obedient faith. We
should not be presumptuous in our faith, but should listen to God, to see
what He wants and believes is right and live according to His Word, His
precepts, His commandments, His Truth. We should listen to God and base our
faith on God's Word, and allow God to correct us:

  I Samuel 15:22-26 - And Samuel said, Has the LORD as great delight in burnt
  offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold, to
  obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. For
  rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and
  idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the LORD, he has also
  rejected you from being king. Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned, for I
  have transgressed the commandment of the LORD and your words, because I
  feared the people and obeyed their voice. Now therefore, please pardon my
  sin and return with me that I may worship the LORD. And Samuel said to
  Saul, I will not return with you. For you have rejected the word of the
  LORD, and the LORD has rejected you from being king over Israel. (ESV)

Loving Jesus, obeying Jesus, and believing that He came from God are
essential:

  John 16:25-27- I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The
  hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but
  will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my
  name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf;
  for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have
  believed that I came from God.

65.2.9. The Holy Spirit is a He and brings to remembrance all the words of
Jesus

As Jesus came in His Father's name, and spoke His Father's words, the Holy
Spirit comes in Jesus' name and brings to remembrance all the words of Jesus:

  John 14:26 - But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in
  my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all
  that I have said to you.

The following verse was brought to my mind as I was sleeping:

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

65.2.10. Jesus is Immanuel, God with us

  Matthew 1:18-25 - Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way.
  When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came
  together she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her
  husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame,
  resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold,
  an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of
  David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived
  in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his
  name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took
  place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet: Behold, the
  virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel
  (which means, God with us). When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the
  angel of the Lord commanded him: he took his wife, but knew her not until
  she had given birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus. (ESV)

  Isaiah 7:14 - Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the
  virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
  (ESV)

  Luke 1:35 - And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you,
  and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to
  be born will be called holy—the Son of God. (ESV)

65.2.11. The Word became flesh - Jesus Christ is the Word of God

Jesus is the Word of God become flesh:

  John 1:14 - And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen
  his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and
  truth. (ESV)

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
  No one comes to the Father except through me. (ESV)

  John 17:17 - Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth. (ESV)

  Psalms 119:160 - The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your
  righteous rules endures forever. (ESV)

  John 6:56 - Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and
  I in him. (ESV)

  John 6:63 - It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The
  words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (ESV)

  John 12:49-50 - For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father
  who sent me has himself given me a commandment—what to say and what to
  speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say,
  therefore, I say as the Father has told me. (ESV)

dwell

  Revelation of John 19:11-13 - Then I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white
  horse! The one sitting on it is called Faithful and True, and in
  righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire,
  and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one
  knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by
  which he is called is The Word of God. (ESV)

Jesus' flesh was Word. The Word became flesh:

  Ephesians 2:11-14 - Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the
  flesh, called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision, which
  is made in the flesh by hands— remember that you were at that time
  separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and
  strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in
  the world. But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been
  brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who has
  made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of
  hostility (ESV)

  Romans 2:28-29 - For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is
  circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly, and
  circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter.
  His praise is not from man but from God. (ESV)

65.2.12. Yeshua, the Lion and the Lamb

  Genesis 49:9 - Judah is a lion's cub; from the prey, my son, you have gone
  up. He stooped down; he crouched as a lion and as a lioness; who dares
  rouse him? (ESV)

  Isaiah 11:6 - The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie
  down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf
  together; and a little child shall lead them. (ESV)

  Isaiah 65:25 - The wolf and the lamb shall graze together; the lion shall
  eat straw like the ox, and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not
  hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, says the LORD. (ESV)

65.2.13. Jesus returned to the Father

  John 14:28 - You heard me say to you, I am going away, and I will come to
  you. If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the
  Father, for the Father is greater than I. (ESV)

  John 16:28 - I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I
  am leaving the world and going to the Father.

  John 16:5 - But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me,
  Where are you going? (ESV)

  John 17:5 - And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory
  that I had with you before the world existed. (ESV)

  Isaiah 55:11 - so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth; it shall
  not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and
  shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. (ESV)

65.2.14. We also become one with the Father as we are kept in His name

  John 17:11 - And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world,
  and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have
  given me, that they may be one, even as we are one. (ESV)

65.2.15. We can know Father God directly, while Jesus tells us plainly about
Father God

We must walk in Jesus' commandments and believe that He came from God.

  John 16:25-28 - I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The
  hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but
  will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my
  name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf;
  for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have
  believed that I came from God. I came from the Father and have come into
  the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father.

65.3. We must agape love God, and our family in Christ and called to agape love
even our enemies - How Christians agape love:

• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/1_john/2-15.htm
• https://biblehub.com/greek/agapa_25.htm
• https://biblehub.com/greek/agapate_25.htm
• https://biblehub.com/greek/26.htm
• https://biblehub.com/greek/agape_n_26.htm

  I Thessalonians 5:18 - give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the
  will of God in Christ Jesus for you. (ESV)

65.3.1. Who Christians must agape love

• God (Father God, Jesus Christ and Holy Spirit)
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/1_john/2-15.htm
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/matthew/22-37.htm
• Matthew 22:37 - And He said to him You shall love (25 Agapēseis)
[the] Lord the God of you with all the heart of you and with all the
soul of you and with all the mind of you (Interlinear)
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/john/14-23.htm
• Your spouse
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/ephesians/5-28.htm
• Others in Christ
• Colossians 3:14 - And above all these put on love (26. agapé), which
binds everything together in perfect harmony. (ESV)

65.3.2. Who Christians are called to agape love:

• All people, even enemies
• https://biblehub.com/greek/agapa_25.htm
• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/matthew/5-44.htm

65.3.3. What Christians must not agape love

• https://biblehub.com/interlinear/1_john/2-15.htm

Agape love must not be to anything of the world:

Book
timothykeller.com: Counterfeit Gods - Timothy Keller

Sermon
youtube.com: Counterfeit Gods - Tim Keller

  Luke 11:43 - Woe to you Pharisees! For you love (agapate) the best seat in
  the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces. (ESV)

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

65.4. In a way, the Son is the Father as far as we can see because looking upon
Jesus we see the Father, but the Father is greater

  John 12:44-45 - And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me,
  believes not in me but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who
  sent me. (ESV)

One thing is for sure, Jesus is the only way to the Father.

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life;
  no one comes to the Father but through Me. (NASB)

  Isaiah 48:16-17 - Draw near to me, hear this: from the beginning I have not
  spoken in secret, from the time it came to be I have been there. And now
  the Lord GOD has sent me, and his Spirit. Thus says the LORD, your
  Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am the LORD your God, who teaches you
  to profit, who leads you in the way you should go. (ESV)

  Matthew 3:16-17 - And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from
  the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the
  Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him; and behold,
  a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well
  pleased. (ESV)

This quite clearly shows that Jesus Christ is Almighty God:

  Zechariah 12:10 - And I will pour out on the house of David and the
  inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and pleas for mercy, so that,
  when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for
  him, as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him, as one
  weeps over a firstborn. (ESV)

  John 10:28 - I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no
  one will snatch them out of my hand. (ESV)

The Father abides in Jesus:

  John 14:10 - Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is
  in Me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on My own initiative, but
  the Father abiding in Me does His works. (NASB)

Jesus abides in the Father (and is in the bosom of the Father):

  John 1:18 - No one has seen God at any time; the only begotten God who is
  in the bosom of the Father, He has explained Him. (NASB)

Jesus Christ is at the Father's side (and has made Father God known):

  John 1:18 - No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's
  side, he has made him known. (ESV)

This says the Word was God. We can be sure that in the beginning there was
the Word and the Word was with God and the Word was God, and that Jesus
Christ is the Word:

  John 1:1 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. (ESV, NASB, KJV, BSB)

In Christ the Godhead is present: simply, it means that in human nature/form
of Jesus, that entails the human flesh/body, there dwells the entirety of
divine perfection:

  Colossians 2:9-15 - For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily,
  and you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority.
  In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by
  putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, having
  been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him
  through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.
  And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your
  flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our
  trespasses, by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its
  legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the
  rulers and authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them
  in him.

The Word actually became flesh:

  John 1:14 - And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen
  his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and
  truth. (ESV)

  Luke 24:39 - See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me, and
  see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have.
  (ESV)

Thomas saw God in Jesus Christ, or Jesus Christ as God:

  John 20:28 - Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God! (ESV)

It's very clear that there is some distinction between Father and Son:

  John 20:17 - Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet
  ascended to the Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, I am
  ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. (ESV)

  John 7:16 - So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who
  sent me. (ESV)

But Jesus Christ is our Mediator:

  I Timothy 2:5 - For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God
  and men, the man Christ Jesus, (ESV)

Jesus still refers to Father God as His God:

  Revelation of John 3:12 - The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in
  the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him
  the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem,
  which comes down from my God out of heaven, and my own new name. (ESV)

I think this really clears things up a little bit:

  Revelation of John 3:21 - The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit
  with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on
  his throne. (ESV)

  John 16:32 - Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will
  be scattered, each to his own home, and will leave me alone. Yet I am not
  alone, for the Father is with me. (ESV)

Jesus came in Father God's name:

  John 5:43 - I have come in my Father's name (onomati), and you do not
  receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. (ESV)

  John 10:25 - Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The
  works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me,

  Revelation of John 14:1 - Then I looked, and behold, on Mount Zion stood
  the Lamb, and with him 144, 000 who had his name and his Father's name
  written on their foreheads.

The Father is with the Son, the Father is in the Son, and the Son in the
Father:

  John 10:30 - I and the Father are one.

The Father is not specifically the Son (Jesus Christ), at least in title, but
Jesus is the Word, and the Word is God, and I think Jesus Christ is still the
Father in the sense that Jesus Christ is in the Father, and the Father in the
Son, but there still seems to be some distinction there between persons or
titles, and to be honest, I'm just trying to rationalise this and understand
how this fits together and don't presume to know everything with certainty.

And Jesus came in the Father's name.

God was revealed in Jesus Christ for us.

65.5. God adopts children, fellow heirs with Christ

The sons of God on earth who are being adopted by God:

• are led by the Spirit
• obeying Jesus Christ
• crucified the flesh with its passions and desires
• are sons of Abraham, with the faith of Abraham
• demonstrating the faith that Abraham had
• have had faith in Jesus Christ's name
• suffer with Christ in order to be glorified with Him
• await their adoption as sons when our bodies are redeemed
• have the creation eagerly longing for their revealing
• have heard God and had faith

Since the Holy Spirit dwells with us even before He is in us, I do understand
that the Holy Spirit may seem to be more force-like before the Holy Spirit
dwells inside and we know Him as a person.

It appears there is evidence that we live by the Spirit even before we walk
by the Spirit. We must also walk by the Spirit:

  Galatians 5:22-25 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
  patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control;
  against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus
  have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the
  Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. (ESV)

Walking by the Spirit I believe looks like following Jesus' commandments:

  Romans 8:14-23 - For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.
  For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but
  you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba!
  Father! The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are
  children of God, and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs
  with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be
  glorified with him. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time
  are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For
  the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God.
  For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of
  him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free
  from its bondage to decay and obtain the freedom of the glory of the
  children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning
  together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation,
  but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as
  we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. (ESV)

To those who had faith in His name:

  Acts 3:16 - And his name—by faith in his name—has made this man strong whom
  you see and know, and the faith that is through Jesus has given the man
  this perfect health in the presence of you all.

John the Baptist came as a witness to the Light that is Jesus Christ, so that
through John the Baptist's testimony, all might come to faith:

  John 1:6-7 - There came a man sent from God, whose name was John. He came
  as a witness (G3141 marturia), to testify (G3140 martureo) about the Light,
  so that all might believe (G4100 pisteuo) through him. (NASB)

Jesus Christ is received through faith:

  John 1:12 - But to all who did receive (G2983 lambano) him, who believed
  (G4100 pisteuo) in his name, he gave the right to become children of God,
  (ESV)

|  :  2983  lambano  lam-ban'-o
| 
|   a prolonged form of a primary verb, which is use only as an alternate
|   in certain tenses; to take (in very many applications, literally and
|   figuratively (properly objective or active, to get hold of; whereas
|   1209 is rather subjective or passive, to have offered to one; while
|   138 is more violent, to seize or remove)):--accept, + be amazed,
|   assay, attain, bring, X when I call, catch, come on (X unto), +
|   forget, have, hold, obtain, receive (X after), take (away, up).
|    see GREEK for 1209
|    see GREEK for 138

Receiving is a mixture of believing, obeying, trusting, believing to receive
- as Abraham's faith was. The faith to receive Jesus, getting to know Him I
think is a span of time (it could be instantaneous to a lengthy period of
time), I presume, as a person continues to trust Him:

  Romans 4:9-12 - Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for
  the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as
  righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he
  had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He
  received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he
  had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him
  the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that
  righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father
  of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the
  footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
  circumcised.

  Galatians 3:7 - Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of
  Abraham.

  Galatians 3:9 - So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with
  Abraham, the man of faith. (ESV)

  Romans 8:19 - For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing
  of the sons of God. (ESV)

  Galatians 3:3-6 - Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you
  now being perfected by the flesh? Did you suffer so many things in vain—if
  indeed it was in vain? Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works
  miracles among you do so by works of the law, or by hearing with faith—
  just as Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness?

We are to be conformed into Christ's image:

  Romans 8:29 - For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be
  conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn
  among many brothers. (ESV)

It makes sense to me that being conformed into Christ's image and knowing
Father God and Jesus Christ who God has sent would be contemporaneous:

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

  Jude 1:25 - to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be
  glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, before all time and now and
  forever. Amen. (ESV)

  Mark 10:35-45 - And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him and
  said to him, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. And
  he said to them, What do you want me to do for you? And they said to him,
  Grant us to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your
  glory. Jesus said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you
  able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with
  which I am baptized? And they said to him, We are able. And Jesus said to
  them, The cup that I drink you will drink, and with the baptism with which
  I am baptized, you will be baptized, but to sit at my right hand or at my
  left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been
  prepared. And when the ten heard it, they began to be indignant at James
  and John. And Jesus called them to him and said to them, You know that
  those who are considered rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and
  their great ones exercise authority over them. But it shall not be so among
  you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever
  would be first among you must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man came
  not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.
  (ESV)

65.6. Inheriting the promises made to Abraham and to Christ

The promises were made to Abraham and to Christ:

  Galatians 3:16 - Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his
  offspring. It does not say, And to offsprings, referring to many, but
  referring to one, And to your offspring, who is Christ.

But through the faith of Abraham in Jesus Christ, we inherit the promises
because we have faith in Jesus Christ:

  Galatians 3:22 - But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that
  the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.

Christ is formed in us, after all:

  Galatians 4:18-19 - It is always good to be made much of for a good
  purpose, and not only when I am present with you, my little children, for
  whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth until Christ is formed in you!

In Christ Jesus, through faith, we are sons:

  Galatians 3:25-26 - But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a
  guardian, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith.

  Acts 4:12 - And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other
  name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.

We put on Christ when we are baptized into Christ:

  Galatians 3:27 - For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put
  on Christ.

  Ephesians 4:4-5 - There is one body and one Spirit—just as you were called
  to the one hope that belongs to your call— one Lord, one faith, one
  baptism, (ESV)

If you are Christ's (in Christ) then you are Abraham's offspring:

  Galatians 3:29 - And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring,
  heirs according to promise.

  Galatians 4:4-9 - But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth
  his Son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under
  the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are
  sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba!
  Father! So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir
  through God. Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to
  those that by nature are not gods. But now that you have come to know God,
  or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and
  worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be
  once more?

The ones who love God, even demonstrated by repenting from sin and away from
the course of this world, God gives to Jesus:

  John 17:6 - I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out
  of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept
  your word.

  John 17:9 - I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world but for
  those whom you have given me, for they are yours.

With the light of truth, people may go from darkness to light:

  John 12:36 - While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may
  become sons of light. When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid
  himself from them.

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness
  of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.

  Galatians 3:13-14 - Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by
  becoming a curse for us—for it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged
  on a tree— so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to
  the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.

The world (the remaining people, who have not repented) may know that Father
God has sent Jesus and loved Jesus' disciples:

  John 17:23 - I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one,
  so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you
  loved me.

  Ephesians 2:2 - in which you once walked, following the course of this
  world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now
  at work in the sons of disobedience—

66. Father God has always abode in and through Jesus through all of God's work,
even as Jesus walked the earth in the flesh. Jesus is the Word

  John 14:10 - Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is
  in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority, but
  the Father who dwells in me does his works. (ESV)

  Proverbs 8:22-23 - The LORD possessed me at the beginning of his work, the
  first of his acts of old. Ages ago I was set up, at the first, before the
  beginning of the earth. (ESV)

  John 1:1 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. (ESV)

  John 10:18 - No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I
  have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again.
  This charge I have received from my Father. (ESV)

  Luke 11:47-51 - Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets whom
  your fathers killed. So you are witnesses and you consent to the deeds of
  your fathers, for they killed them, and you build their tombs. Therefore
  also the Wisdom of God said, I will send them prophets and apostles, some
  of whom they will kill and persecute, so that the blood of all the
  prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, may be charged against
  this generation, from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who
  perished between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I tell you, it will be
  required of this generation. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 1:30 - He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom
  God made our wisdom and our righteousness and sanctification and
  redemption. (ESV)

67. Sun's light failing as the curtain was torn and Jesus died

  Mark 15:37-39 - And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last. And the
  curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. And when the
  centurion, who stood facing him, saw that in this way he breathed his last,
  he said, Truly this man was the Son of God! (ESV)

  Matthew 27:51 - And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from
  top to bottom. And the earth shook, and the rocks were split. (ESV)

  Mark 15:38 - And the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to
  bottom. (ESV)

  Luke 23:43-46 - And he said to him, Truly, I say to you, today you will be
  with me in Paradise. It was now about the sixth hour, and there was
  darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour, while the sun's light
  failed. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two. Then Jesus, calling
  out with a loud voice, said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!
  And having said this he breathed his last. (ESV)

  Hebrews 6:19-20 - We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul,
  a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain, where Jesus has
  gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever
  after the order of Melchizedek. (ESV)

  Hebrews 9:11-15 - But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good
  things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not
  made with hands, that is, not of this creation) he entered once for all
  into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by
  means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the
  sprinkling of defiled persons with the blood of goats and bulls and with
  the ashes of a heifer sanctifies for the purification of the flesh, how
  much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered
  himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to
  serve the living God. Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so
  that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance,
  since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions
  committed under the first covenant. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:12-14 - But when Christ had offered for all time a single
  sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that
  time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a
  single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being
  sanctified. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:19-20 - Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter
  the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he
  opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh, (ESV)

68. Jesus rose from the dead and ascended by His own authority given to Him by
Father God. Amen

  Luke 24:1-7 - But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they came to
  the tomb bringing the spices which they had prepared. And they found the
  stone rolled away from the tomb, but when they entered, they did not find
  the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were perplexed about this, behold,
  two men suddenly stood near them in dazzling clothing; and as the women
  were terrified and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them,
  “Why do you seek the living One among the dead? He is not here, but He has
  risen. Remember how He spoke to you while He was still in Galilee, saying
  that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be
  crucified, and the third day rise again.” (ESV)

  Luke 24:25-26 - And he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to
  believe all that the prophets have spoken! Was it not necessary that the
  Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? (ESV)

  Luke 24:38-49 - And he said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do
  doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself.
  Touch me, and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see
  that I have. And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his
  feet. And while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said
  to them, Have you anything here to eat? They gave him a piece of broiled
  fish, and he took it and ate before them. Then he said to them, These are
  my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything
  written about me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must
  be fulfilled. Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures, and
  said to them, Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and on the
  third day rise from the dead, and that repentance and forgiveness of sins
  should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
  You are witnesses of these things. And behold, I am sending the promise of
  my Father upon you. But stay in the city until you are clothed with power
  from on high. (ESV)

Jesus, by His own authority, rose from the dead. AMEN!!

Sermon
youtube.com: Message To All Christians @time: 2 min 54 sec

  John 10:17-18 - For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my
  life that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it
  down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have
  authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father.
  (ESV)

68.1. Ascension

  Luke 24:50-53 - And He led them out as far as Bethany, and He lifted up His
  hands and blessed them. While He was blessing them, He parted from them and
  was carried up into heaven. And they, after worshiping Him, returned to
  Jerusalem with great joy, and were continually in the temple praising God.
  (ESV)

  Acts 1:1-12 - The first account I composed, Theophilus, about all that
  Jesus began to do and teach, until the day when He was taken up to heaven,
  after He had by the Holy Spirit given orders to the apostles whom He had
  chosen. To these He also presented Himself alive after His suffering, by
  many convincing proofs, appearing to them over a period of forty days and
  speaking of the things concerning the kingdom of God. Gathering them
  together, He commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for what
  the Father had promised, “Which,” He said, “you heard of from Me; for John
  baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many
  days from now.” So when they had come together, they were asking Him,
  saying, “Lord, is it at this time You are restoring the kingdom to Israel?”
  He said to them, “It is not for you to know times or epochs which the
  Father has fixed by His own authority; but you will receive power when the
  Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be My witnesses both in
  Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the remotest part of
  the earth.” And after He had said these things, He was lifted up while they
  were looking on, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. And as they
  were gazing intently into the sky while He was going, behold, two men in
  white clothing stood beside them. They also said, “Men of Galilee, why do
  you stand looking into the sky? This Jesus, who has been taken up from you
  into heaven, will come in just the same way as you have watched Him go into
  heaven.” Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet,
  which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day’s journey away. (ESV)

69. Armour of God / Armour of Light

  Ephesians 6:11-13 - Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to
  stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh
  and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the
  cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of
  evil in the heavenly places. Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that
  you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand
  firm. (ESV)

• Belt of Truth
• Breastplate of Righteousness
• Shoes of the Gospel of Peace
• Shield of Faith
• Helmet of Salvation
• Sword of the Spirit
• Prayer
• Lamp

69.1. Love and holiness

    • Romans 13:10-14 - Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is
      the fulfilling of the law. Besides this you know the time, that the
      hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us
      now than when we first believed. The night is far gone; the day is at
      hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the
      armor of light. Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies
      and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in
      quarreling and jealousy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no
      provision for the flesh, to gratify its desires. (ESV)

69.2. Belt of Truth

Message
youtube.com: C S Lewis message 2024 - Faith in action God fights for you, but
you must also act @time: 13 min 7 sec

  CS Lewis - Think of it as the sturdy belt a soldier wears, holding
  everything in place.

  The Truth serves as the foundation of our spiritual lives, anchoring us in
  a world full of deceptions and falsehoods.

  It is the Word of God that anchors us and sets us free, as Jesus said in
  John 8:32.

  Then there is the breastplate of righteousness.

  This piece of armour protects our hearts against the enemy's attacks.

  It is a reminder of the righteousness we have through Christ, not because
  of anything we have done, but because of His sacrifice on the cross.

  It is about living in obedience and integrity, knowing that we are clothed
  in His righteousness.

  Ephesians 6:14 - Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and
  having put on the breastplate of righteousness, (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:9 - (for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and
  right and true), (ESV)

A comprehensive and broad understanding of the Bible is certainly important
so we are not "tossed around by every wind of doctrine", and to grow into and
become established in the knowledge of Jesus, and able to not be tossed
around when people ask questions about doctrine (I have often felt tested in
this way, and sometimes unprepared), and that is why I am writing this Bible
study out:

69.2.1. Belts of righteousness, faithfulness

  Isaiah 11:5 - Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and
  faithfulness the belt of his loins. (ESV)

69.2.2. We are fighting against lawlessness

  II Thessalonians 2:9-13 - The coming of the lawless one is by the activity
  of Satan with all power and false signs and wonders, and with all wicked
  deception for those who are perishing, because they refused to love the
  truth and so be saved. Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so that
  they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who did
  not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. But we ought
  always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because
  God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the
  Spirit and belief in the truth. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:25-26 - He shall speak words against the Most High, and shall wear
  out the saints of the Most High, and shall think to change the times and
  the law; and they shall be given into his hand for a time, times, and half
  a time. But the court shall sit in judgment, and his dominion shall be
  taken away, to be consumed and destroyed to the end. (ESV)

  I Peter 1:2 - according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the
  sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for
  sprinkling with his blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you. (ESV)

We must have belief in the truth while being sanctified by the Spirit through
faith.

69.3. Breastplate of Righteousness

69.3.1. Imputed righteousness - The righteousness through faith in Jesus
Christ.

I need to do more studies on the theology behind John Piper's message here:

Watch
youtube.com: Rest for Your Soul {@desiringGod}

My only sure confidence as far as justification goes is the external
righteousness that I have in Jesus through faith in Jesus recognising the
commandment to the obedience of faith in Jesus and that God is just and the
justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus, so that is an external
righteousness not of my own but I recognise that God is the one who
justifies. This is how I'm resting on the finished work of the cross.

I also recognise the command to further obedience to God, not just the
command to the obedience of faith in Jehovah God and Jesus but also the
command to agape love God and my neighbour, and the commandment of repentance
towards God and faith in Jesus and also the commandment to serve and obey and
worship God and to stop serving and obeying sin.

  Philippians 3:9 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own
  that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the
  righteousness from God that depends on faith— (ESV)

  Ephesians 6:14 - Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and
  having put on the breastplate of righteousness, (ESV)

  Isaiah 59:17-18 - He put on righteousness as a breastplate, and a helmet of
  salvation on his head; he put on garments of vengeance for clothing, and
  wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. According to their deeds, so will he
  repay, wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies; to the
  coastlands he will render repayment. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 1:30 - He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom
  God made our wisdom and our righteousness and sanctification and
  redemption. (ESV)

https://www.reddit.com/r/PrayerTeam_amen/comments/1h5qmbn/jesus_dropped_the_charges/
When the devil brings up your past, remind him that Jesus dropped the
charges.

Yeah man. Amen. Knowing Jesus dropped the charges, and then wanting to turn a
new leaf, the devil comes along against and tries to make me think my efforts
to turn away from sin is working for justification…. Also, wanting to turn a
new leaf and sell my posessions and give to the poor, the devil comes along
and tries to deter me, even through people trying to make me afraid of
"testing God" by trusting God, even though Jesus said that our Heavenly
Father takes care of us. Then when I refuse to go back into lewd habbits of
my past, the devil puts these dreams in my head and attack my mind and body
as I'm sleeping. It's a battle… But Jesus dropped the charges. I was
born-again 2 years ago and though I have had to be corrected reading the
Scripture, but I still do not feel condemned. I have faith in Jesus. I'm
trying to continue to be obedient to Jesus. I still make mistakes but I
believe I have a righteousness that is not in me - it's outside of me, it's
Jesus. And I'm happy that in this situation I'm able to continue doing battle
against sin and against the devil while Jesus is advocating for me, his blood
is sanctifying me and Jesus is preparing me to stand before Father God.

69.3.2. Personal holiness righteousness - Godliness

Cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light:

  Romans 13:12-14 - The night is far gone; the day is at hand. So then let us
  cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us walk
  properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual
  immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy. But put on the
  Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its
  desires. (ESV)

Live in the spirit the way God does:

  I Peter 4:1-6 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the
  flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the
  flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. The time that
  is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in
  sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless
  idolatry. With respect to this they are surprised when you do not join them
  in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you; but they will give
  account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is
  why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged
  in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God
  does. (ESV)

youtube.com: Unstained from the World: The Battle for Purity - Tim Conway
@time: 16 min 34 sec

Unspotted by the world is mainly a mind thing.

Listen what Paul says, "Do not be conformed to this world."

That's the issue. Don't be spotted by it. Don't be conformed to it.

But be transformed by the renewal of your mind. You see where the battle is?

Brethren, to be unspotted from the world, this is largely for us to be
unspspotted by the ways that this world thinks, its theories, its belief
systems. We're talking strongholds of thought and Brethren, you know what,
you had a world out there and it's like they have this fortification around
their head, around their thoughts, around how they think, and they live in
it.

And they're trapped in these things and our responsibility is to seek to come
and dash these things. John MacArthur says, heard him say that these things
become their tombs. They die in there.

Oh, they appear so lofty, scientific, intelligent, intellectual. This all
seems good, and you know what Paul said, listen you know what he said? Every
lofty opinion, we destroy arguments, every lofty opinion raised against the
knowledge of God. It's all against the knowledge of God. You see what people
are fortifying themselves with? Systems that are anti-god, anti-christ and,
listen, to the degree you embibe this, the way the world thinks, you're
stained by it, you're adulterated by it.

We got to get the world's ideologies out of our mind and stop being
double-headed, stop being adulterated in the mind. You know what we're
striving after? Your virginity of the mind.

69.4. Shoes of the Gospel of Peace

The readiness to share the Gospel of Jesus Christ with people, and also live
out the Gospel.

  Ephesians 6:15 - and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness
  given by the gospel of peace. (ESV)

  Isaiah 52:7 - How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who
  brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news of happiness,
  who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, Your God reigns. (ESV)

  Romans 10:15 - And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is
  written, How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news!
  (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:18-21 - All this is from God, who through Christ
  reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; that
  is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their
  trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of
  reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his
  appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to
  God. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we
  might become the righteousness of God. (ESV)

69.5. Shield of Faith

Maintaining faithfulness to God, and our trust in God, God fights for us and
is our shield.

  Ephesians 6:16 - In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with
  which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one; (ESV)

  I Peter 5:8-9 - Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil
  prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him,
  firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being
  experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. (ESV)

  I John 5:4-5 - For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world.
  And this is the victory that has overcome the world—our faith. Who is it
  that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son
  of God? (ESV)

  Psalms 56:3-4 - When I am afraid, I put my trust in you. In God, whose word
  I praise, in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me?
  (ESV)

Having faith in God, we have our shield:

  Genesis 15:1 - After these things the word of the LORD came to Abram in a
  vision: Fear not, Abram, I am your shield; your reward shall be very great.
  (ESV)

69.6. Helmet of Salvation

Our hope of salvation which we have in Jesus Christ.

  Ephesians 6:17 - and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the
  Spirit, which is the word of God, (ESV)

  Isaiah 59:17 - He put on righteousness as a breastplate, and a helmet of
  salvation on his head; he put on garments of vengeance for clothing, and
  wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 5:8 - But since we belong to the day, let us be sober,
  having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope
  of salvation. (ESV)

69.7. Sword of the Spirit

69.7.1. Apply the word of God to combat lies

  Ephesians 6:17 - and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the
  Spirit, which is the word of God, (ESV)

69.7.2. Believe the truth

  Matthew 4:4 - But he answered, It is written, Man shall not live by bread
  alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. (ESV)

69.7.3. Keep a clean heart with God

  Hebrews 4:12-13 - For the word of God is living and active, sharper than
  any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of
  joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the
  heart. And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and
  exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. (ESV)

  Acts 24:14-16 - But this I confess to you, that according to the Way, which
  they call a sect, I worship the God of our fathers, believing everything
  laid down by the Law and written in the Prophets, having a hope in God,
  which these men themselves accept, that there will be a resurrection of
  both the just and the unjust. So I always take pains to have a clear
  conscience toward both God and man. (ESV)

69.7.4. Repent

  Revelation of John 19:15 - From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to
  strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will
  tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 2:16 - Therefore repent. If not, I will come to you soon
  and war against them with the sword of my mouth. (ESV)

  Hosea 6:5 - Therefore I have hewn them by the prophets; I have slain them
  by the words of my mouth, and my judgment goes forth as the light. (ESV)

69.8. Prayer

An example of a prayer - short and sweet:

  Genesis 24:12 - And he said, O LORD, God of my master Abraham, please grant
  me success today and show steadfast love to my master Abraham. (ESV)

Another example:

  Daniel 2:20-23 - Daniel answered and said: Blessed be the name of God
  forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom and might. He changes times and
  seasons; he removes kings and sets up kings; he gives wisdom to the wise
  and knowledge to those who have understanding; he reveals deep and hidden
  things; he knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him. To
  you, O God of my fathers, I give thanks and praise, for you have given me
  wisdom and might, and have now made known to me what we asked of you, for
  you have made known to us the king's matter. (ESV)

  Ephesians 6:18 - praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and
  supplication. To that end keep alert with all perseverance, making
  supplication for all the saints, (ESV)

  I Thessalonians 5:17 - pray without ceasing, (ESV)

  Colossians 4:2 - Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with
  thanksgiving. (ESV)

  I Timothy 2:1 - First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers,
  intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, (ESV)

  Philippians 4:6 - do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by
  prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known
  to God. (ESV)

  Jude 1:20 - But you, beloved, build yourselves up in your most holy faith;
  pray in the Holy Spirit; (ESV)

  Romans 8:26-27 - Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do
  not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit himself intercedes
  for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows
  what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the
  saints according to the will of God. (ESV)

69.9. Lamp

Awaiting the grace that will be brought to us at the revelation of Jesus
Christ, prepare our hearts, waiting for Jesus to knock, ready for action.

The day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. But we know it's
coming, so we'll be ready for it:

  I Thessalonians 5:4-5 - But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day
  to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light, children
  of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. (ESV)

Keep shining your light, maintaining a heart of service, and do good works of
faith to glorify God, as we put our hope fully on the mercy and grace from
Jesus Christ:

  I Peter 1:13 - Therefore, preparing your minds for action, and being
  sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you
  at the revelation of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

Jesus will serve His servants who are awake:

  Luke 12:33-37 - Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide
  yourselves with moneybags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the
  heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
  For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Stay dressed for
  action and keep your lamps burning, and be like men who are waiting for
  their master to come home from the wedding feast, so that they may open the
  door to him at once when he comes and knocks. Blessed are those servants
  whom the master finds awake when he comes. Truly, I say to you, he will
  dress himself for service and have them recline at table, and he will come
  and serve them. (ESV)

  Matthew 23:11 - The greatest among you shall be your servant. (ESV)

69.10. Armour of God - CS Lewis notes

youtube.com: C S Lewis message 2024 - Faith in action God fights for you, but
you must also act @time: 12 min 35 sec

69.10.1. Belt of Truth

Think of it as the study belt a soldier wears, holding everything in place.
The Truth serves as the foundation of our spiritual life, anchoring us in a
world full of deceptions and falsehoods. It is the word of God that anchors
us and sets us free.

69.10.2. Breastplate of Righteousness

Protects our hearts against the enemy's attacks. It is a reminder of the
righteousness we have through Christ, not because of anything we have done.
It is about living in obedience and integrity, knowing that we are clothed in
His righteousness.

69.10.3. Shoes of Peace

These are not just ordinary shoes. They symbolise our readiness to share the
good news of peace with others. In a world torn by conflict and turmoil, we
carry the message of reconciliation and hope wherever we go. It is the peace
that comes with knowing Christ as mentioned in Philippians 4:7.

  Philippians 4:7 - And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding,
  will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

69.10.4. Shield of Faith

Faith comes in as our shield against the fiery darts of the enemy. It is not
just a passive belief but an active trust in God's promises. With faith, we
can extinguish every arrow of doubt, fear and temptation. We hold our groud,
secure in God's love as Romans 8:38-39 assures us.

  Romans 8:38-39 - For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor
  rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height nor
  depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from
  the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

69.10.5. Helmet of salvation

The Helmet of salvation is what protects our minds from the enemy's lies and
doubts:

• Reminds us of the certainty we have in Christ
• The assurance of our salvation
• Our hope
• Our eternal inheritance

With this helmet we stand firm in our identity as children of God, redeemed
and forgiven.

We cannot forget the Sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God. This is
not just any weapon, but it is our offensive tool in spiritual battles, just
as Jesus did in the wilderness.

We use scripture to demolish strongholds and take every thought captive for
Christ as mentioned in 2 Corinthians 10:4-5:

  II Corinthians 10:4-5 - For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh
  but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and
  every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every
  thought captive to obey Christ, (ESV)

youtube.com: Unstained from the World: The Battle for Purity - Tim Conway
@time: 16 min 34 sec

Unspotted by the world is mainly a mind thing.

Listen what Paul says, "Do not be conformed to this world."

That's the issue. Don't be spotted by it. Don't be conformed to it.

But be transformed by the renewal of your mind. You see where the battle is?

Brethren, to be unspotted from the world, this is largely for us to be
unspspotted by the ways that this world thinks, its theories, its belief
systems. We're talking strongholds of thought and Brethren, you know what,
you had a world out there and it's like they have this fortification around
their head, around their thoughts, around how they think, and they live in
it.

And they're trapped in these things and our responsibility is to seek to come
and dash these things. John MacArthur says, heard him say that these things
become their tombs. They die in there.

Oh, they appear so lofty, scientific, intelligent, intellectual. This all
seems good, and you know what Paul said, listen you know what he said? Every
lofty opinion, we destroy arguments, every lofty opinion raised against the
knowledge of God. It's all against the knowledge of God. You see what people
are fortifying themselves with? Systems that are anti-god, anti-christ and,
listen, to the degree you embibe this, the way the world thinks, you're
stained by it, you're adulterated by it.

We got to get the world's ideologies out of our mind and stop being
double-headed, stop being adulterated in the mind. You know what we're
striving after? Your virginity of the mind.

I want to let the Bible smash bad theology - not just my own bad theology.

Not by our own strength, but by God's power. God equips and enables us to
stand firm so in the midst of every spiritual battle, let us stand strong
with the armour He has provided.

In spiritual warfare we are also confronted with situations where we have to
make choices on our actions to side with God:

  Daniel 1:8-14 - But Daniel resolved that he would not defile himself with
  the king's food, or with the wine that he drank. Therefore he asked the
  chief of the eunuchs to allow him not to defile himself. And God gave
  Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs, and
  the chief of the eunuchs said to Daniel, I fear my lord the king, who
  assigned your food and your drink; for why should he see that you were in
  worse condition than the youths who are of your own age? So you would
  endanger my head with the king. Then Daniel said to the steward whom the
  chief of the eunuchs had assigned over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and
  Azariah, Test your servants for ten days; let us be given vegetables to eat
  and water to drink. Then let our appearance and the appearance of the
  youths who eat the king's food be observed by you, and deal with your
  servants according to what you see. So he listened to them in this matter,
  and tested them for ten days. (ESV)

youtube.com: Chosen Ones Why People Start To Act STRANGE Around You
The minute God calls you now you start to know people start to act strange
and start to move different. There's a reason behind that. Everything that's
taking place in your life, guys, is all spiritual. We have Spirits working
through individuals. This is why I tell people all the time you're not
dealing with the individual, you are dealing with the spirit behind [them].

70. Solae

I am covered by the Blood of Jesus Christ. My trust is in Jesus. I am
justified by faith in Jesus Christ who has set me free from the law of sin
and death. The law of the spirit of life in Christ has set me free from the
law of sin and death. In Christ I am justified by His blood as I have placed
by faith in Him and continue to trust Him and obey Him. He takes care of me.

God has made Christ Jesus our wisdom:

  I Corinthians 1:30 - He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom
  God made our wisdom and our righteousness and sanctification and
  redemption. (ESV)

My justification and salvation are absolutely reliant on Him and He is
faithful even when I am unfaithful.

Obeying Jesus is not contrary to faith in Jesus but gives me confidence
before God. AMEN!!

  I John 3:21-24 - Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have
  confidence before God; and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we
  keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment,
  that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another,
  just as he has commanded us. Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him,
  and he in them. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit
  whom he has given us. (ESV)

  I John 3:18-19 - Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in
  deed and in truth. By this we shall know that we are of the truth and
  reassure our heart before him; (ESV)

I believe in all of theses:

• sola fida (by faith alone) AMEN!!.
• The justifying faith may include 'acts of faith', which is just
visible, working faith.
• Works done outside of faith do not qualify for justification.
• sola gratia (by grace alone) AMEN!!
• sola scriptura (by Scripture alone) AMEN!!
• Solus Christus AMEN!!
• Soli Deo gloria (glory to God alone) AMEN!! But the glory God gives us
glorifies God.

To believe, we must be seeking God, not glory from one another:

  John 5:44 - How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another
  and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? (ESV)

I'm using the Word of God and doing this Bible study to tread on serpents.
Thanks Jesus for giving me authority to do that:

  Luke 10:19 - Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and
  scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you.
  (ESV)

  John 7:18 - The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory,
  but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him
  there is no falsehood.

I'm honestly just trying to combat falsehood by reading and applying the
Scriptures in a way where I'm responding to promptings from the Holy Spirit
and taking every thought captive to obey Christ, and I want to honour Jesus
and honour God, and not bury my talent. So I hope my Bible study has been
helpful. And all glory to God.

  II Corinthians 10:5 - We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised
  against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey
  Christ,

  Matthew 25:22-23 - And he also who had the two talents came forward,
  saying, Master, you delivered to me two talents; here I have made two
  talents more. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant.
  You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into
  the joy of your master.

71. Glorification

Jesus sent us. We seek to glorify Jesus. We seek to glorify our Master. We
seek to glorify God. We seek to be found in Jesus. We seek the glorification
that comes from being found in our Master, Jesus Christ.

  John 7:18 - The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory,
  but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him
  there is no falsehood.

We must abide in Jesus. God doesn't give glory to anyone else. God is love
and God is Jehovah and God is Father God and Jesus Christ who He sent:

  Isaiah 42:8 - I am the LORD; that is my name; my glory I give to no other,
  nor my praise to carved idols. (ESV)

I'm using the Word of God and doing this Bible study to tread on serpents.
Thanks Jesus for giving me authority to do that:

  Luke 10:19 - Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and
  scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you.
  (ESV)

The glory comes from God:

  John 5:44 - How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another
  and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? (ESV)

  Psalms 73:24 - You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will
  receive me to glory.

God glorifies Jesus:

  John 5:41 - I do not receive glory from people.

  John 8:54 - Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is
  my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say, He is our God.

God glorifies Himself through glorifying Jesus through working through Jesus.
The power comes from God:

  John 11:4 - But when Jesus heard it he said, This illness does not lead to
  death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified
  through it.

  John 13:32 - If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in
  himself, and glorify him at once.

Jesus glorifies us, provided we suffer for His sake, by working through us to
do God's work which also glorifies Jesus and glorifies God:

  John 14:13 - Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father
  may be glorified in the Son.

  John 15:8 - By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so
  prove to be my disciples.

  John 17:10-11 - All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified
  in them. And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I
  am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given
  me, that they may be one, even as we are one. (ESV)

  Romans 8:17 - and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs
  with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be
  glorified with him. (ESV)

The Spirit whom those who have faith in Jesus receive works through us:

  John 7:39 - Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in
  him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because
  Jesus was not yet glorified.

Jesus glorified God by accomplishing the work that God gave Him - Jesus
obeyed God.

  John 17:4 - I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you
  gave me to do.

Likewise, we must obey God, and obey God by obeying Jesus, and being
sanctified in the Truth. By having faith in Jesus and trusting in the Truth,
and obeying, we are cleaned, transformed and made to glorify God:

  John 17:8-26 - For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they
  have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and
  they have believed that you sent me. I am praying for them. I am not
  praying for the world but for those whom you have given me, for they are
  yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them.
  And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming
  to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that
  they may be one, even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in
  your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of
  them has been lost except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might
  be fulfilled. But now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the
  world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them
  your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world,
  just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the
  world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world,
  just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth; your word is
  truth. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world.
  And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in
  truth. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in
  me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are
  in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may
  believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me I have
  given to them, that they may be one even as we are one, I in them and you
  in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that
  you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they
  also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my glory
  that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the
  world. O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know
  you, and these know that you have sent me. I made known to them your name,
  and I will continue to make it known, that the love with which you have
  loved me may be in them, and I in them.

  II Thessalonians 1:10 - when he comes on that day to be glorified in his
  saints, and to be marveled at among all who have believed, because our
  testimony to you was believed.

We are to be conformed into Christ's image:

  Romans 8:29 - For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be
  conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn
  among many brothers. (ESV)

We're supposed to do good works of faith by Jesus' power so that Jesus' name
is glorified - and those works done in Jesus' power are entirely given by
grace to us:

71.1. Glorification is grace

Being persecuted for doing good works of faith by His power is all grace:

  II Thessalonians 1:11-12 - To this end we always pray for you, that our God
  may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good
  and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus
  may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God
  and the Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

71.2. Glorification is Christ-likeness

We are trying to shine the Truth of Jesus Christ and Jesus' gospel.

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation,
  a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of
  him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. (ESV)

Glorification is the visible works of following Jesus including forgiving
others, relieving others' burdens, etc. suffering for the sake of
righteousness and obedience to God.

Imitating Jesus, forgiving others, walking righteously, and doing good works
(bearing one-another's burdens) glorifies Jesus and glorifies God. The
motivation is to glorify Jesus, and to honour Jesus.

  I Corinthians 6:20 - for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in
  your body. (ESV)

  Romans 12:1 - I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God,
  to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God,
  which is your spiritual worship. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Steve Apirana - Living Sacrifice

This should never replace Jesus, but glorifies Jesus because it's being a
disciple of Jesus.

  II Thessalonians 1:11-12 - To this end we always pray for you, that our God
  may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good
  and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus
  may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God
  and the Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

  Hebrews 2:10 - For it was fitting for Him, for whom (G3739 hos) are all
  (G3956 pas) things (G3956 pas), and through whom (G3739 hos) are all (G3956
  pas) things (G3956 pas), in bringing many sons to glory (G1391 doxa), to
  perfect (G5048 teleioo) the author of their salvation (G4991 soteria)
  through sufferings.

If someone's lord is money and not Jesus and then they try to do good works
such as setting up businesses, I feel like this glorifies money, not Jesus.

Here, Zacchaeus, renounces money and makes Jesus his Lord. This must happen
first.

  Luke 19:8 - And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the
  half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of
  anything, I restore it fourfold. (ESV)

Abram did this too. It's a necessary act of faith.

  Genesis 14:20-24 - and blessed be God Most High, who has delivered your
  enemies into your hand! And Abram gave him a tenth of everything. And the
  king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the persons, but take the goods for
  yourself. But Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted my hand to the
  Lord, God Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth, that I would not take a
  thread or a sandal strap or anything that is yours, lest you should say, I
  have made Abram rich. I will take nothing but what the young men have
  eaten, and the share of the men who went with me. Let Aner, Eshcol, and
  Mamre take their share.

  Genesis 15:1 - After these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a
  vision: Fear not, Abram, I am your shield; your reward shall be very great.

71.3. True obedience leads to glory/holiness/Christ-likeness

For example, to truly obey God and love / do no harm to one's neighbour
involves relieving other's burdens as they ask more from you.

  Philippians 2:8 - And being found in human form, he humbled himself by
  becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. (ESV)

youtube.com: C.S. Lewis - God is guiding our lives to the best path @time: 18
min 37 sec
As you feel compelled to act according to what pleases God, even in the face
of difficulties, it is a clear sign that He is moulding not only your heart
but your entire being. God is reshaping you to reflect the person he created
you to be, with a heart like that of Jesus.

Jesus endured the weight of His cross to lighten our burden:

  Hebrews 12:3 - Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against
  himself, so that you may not grow weary or fainthearted. (ESV)

We are called to do the same, lightening the burdens of others. We are
forgiven and given grace, then we can choose to forgive others and lighten
their burdens - grace propagates.

  Hebrews 12:4-6 - In your struggle against sin you have not yet resisted to
  the point of shedding your blood. And have you forgotten the exhortation
  that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of
  the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the
  one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives.

  Hebrews 12:10 - For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best
  to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his
  holiness.

71.4. Forgive others' offenses towards you is glory

  Proverbs 19:11 - Good sense makes one slow to anger, and it is his glory to
  overlook an offense. (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:32 - Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one
  another, as God in Christ forgave you. (ESV)

We are required to:

• forgive others for your sake
• forgive others for their sake
• forgive others as a response of love to Jesus for your sins being
forgiven
• to be able to forgive others is a gift to you and part of glorification
• be merciful to others as we have received mercy

This is simultaneously required and is part of glorification/holiness.

I think there's something very important about forgiving others especially
for things which happen after being born-again of the Spirit and receiving
the Holy Spirit.

  Colossians 3:13 - bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint
  against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you
  also must forgive.

  John 20:21-23 - Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you. As the Father
  has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he
  breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive
  the sins of anyone, they are forgiven; if you withhold forgiveness from
  anyone, it is withheld.

Especially immediately after receiving the Holy Spirit, Jesus forgives those
who you forgive - this is partaking in the process of forgiveness.

Jesus is the one who forgives sin, but we actually participate in propagating
that forgiveness.

Forgiving others entirely is also required

  Matthew 6:12 - and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our
  debtors.

Sometimes you don't know if you're in the right or wrong, so forgiving
others' offences towards you is freeing yourself:

  Matthew 18:21-35 - Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will
  my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times? Jesus
  said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven.
  Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to
  settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought
  to him who owed him ten thousand talents. And since he could not pay, his
  master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he
  had, and payment to be made. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring
  him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything. And out of pity
  for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt.
  But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants
  who owed him a hundred denarii, and seizing him, he began to choke him,
  saying, Pay what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with
  him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you. He refused and went and put
  him in prison until he should pay the debt. When his fellow servants saw
  what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and
  reported to their master all that had taken place. Then his master summoned
  him and said to him, You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt
  because you pleaded with me. And should not you have had mercy on your
  fellow servant, as I had mercy on you? And in anger his master delivered
  him to the jailers, until he should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly
  Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from
  your heart. (ESV)

Before God we're all guilty:

  Romans 3:23 - for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, (ESV)

Loving one another includes forgiving one another. Forgiving others means not
holding a grudge:

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

youtube.com: Sin as Slavery - Timothy Keller Sermon @time: 22 min 17 sec
What if you just decided, "I know I'm supposed to forgive but I'm not I'm
going to hold a grudge." You know what that will do to your mind? It will rot
your mind mind. Because first of all in order to hold a grudge you've got to
feel morally superior to that person. You cannot see yourself as yourself
guilty of anything that person has done. And so, when the evidence comes that
you are a sinner, when the evidence comes that you are weak, when the
evidence comes that you're flawed, you'll screen it out. You won't be able
to. Because you can't hold on, you can't crave vengeance and still be
rational. You'll have to screen out any evidence that says, "Hey, you're as
bad as that person" and not only that, you'll have to screen out any evidence
that person isn't as bad as you thought they were.

youtube.com: Sin as Slavery - Timothy Keller Sermon @time: 23 min 7 sec
Sin will not only destroy your emotions through an eternal tolerance effect
but it will destroy your mind. You will not be able to think and in the end
your will is gone.

Forgiving each other moves mountains (I know Gospel of Thomas is not canon
and I don't affirm the gospel of Thomas - I think it's misleading, but this
saying rings true for me, and I believe it means that when two people make
peace, they can move mountains. Whether Jesus truly said it or not, who
knows):

  Thomas 48 - Jesus said: If two make peace with one another in this one
  house, they will say to the mountain: Be removed, and it will be removed.

  Matthew 18:15-20 - If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his
  fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained
  your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with
  you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three
  witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if
  he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and
  a tax collector. Truly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be
  bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
  Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask,
  it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are
  gathered in my name, there am I among them. (ESV)

It's Christlike to forgive others' offences against us:

  Proverbs 19:11 - Good sense makes one slow to anger, and it is his glory to
  overlook an offense. (ESV)

We'll be chastised if we do not forgive our brother from our heart:

  Matthew 18:35 - So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you, if
  you do not forgive your brother from your heart. (ESV)

Get out of debt to others:

  Romans 13:7 - Pay to all what is owed to them: taxes to whom taxes are
  owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed,
  honor to whom honor is owed. (ESV)

Come to the place where we owe others nothing but to love them:

  Romans 13:8 - Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one
  who loves another has fulfilled the law. (ESV)

Our unforgiveness is an impediment to receiving forgiveness:

  Mark 11:25 - And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything
  against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you
  your trespasses. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:14-15 - For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly
  Father will also forgive you, but if you do not forgive others their
  trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. (ESV)

We should have the right response to the grace of God, and forgive our
neighbour:

  Ephesians 4:32 - Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving each
  other, just as God in Christ also has forgiven you.

We are instructed to forward grace to others:

  Matthew 10:8 - Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out
  demons. You received without paying; give without pay. (ESV)

71.5. Be extremely generous - give without limits to relieve the burdens of
others

  Matthew 10:8 - Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out
  demons. You received without paying; give without pay. (ESV)

  1 Peter 4:8 - Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love
  covers a multitude of sins. (ESV)

  Luke 6:35-36 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting
  nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of
  the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful,
  even as your Father is merciful. (ESV)

  Luke 6:38 - give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down,
  shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For with the
  measure you use it will be measured back to you. (ESV)

  Mark 12:41-44 - And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the
  people putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large
  sums. And a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a
  penny. And he called his disciples to him and said to them, Truly, I say to
  you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to
  the offering box. For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she
  out of her poverty has put in everything she had, all she had to live on.
  (ESV)

  Psalms 37:21 - The wicked borrows but does not pay back, but the righteous
  is generous and gives; (ESV)

  Psalms 37:25-26 - I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen
  the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread. He is ever
  lending generously, and his children become a blessing. (ESV)

Paul commends giving even beyond their means. This is in accordance with the
widow's offering:

  II Corinthians 8:3-5 - For they gave according to their means, as I can
  testify, and beyond their means, of their own free will, begging us
  earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints— and
  this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and
  then by the will of God to us. (ESV)

Give as you have made up in your mind, not reluctantly or under compulsion,
but resist other people deterring you from giving when your heart convicts
you it's the right thing to do as far as obeying Jesus goes:

  II Corinthians 9:6-9 - The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also
  reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.
  Each one must give as he has made up his mind, not reluctantly or under
  compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all
  grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all
  times, you may abound in every good work. As it is written, He has
  distributed freely, he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures
  forever. (ESV)

  Philemon 1:13-14 - I would have been glad to keep him with me, in order
  that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the
  gospel, but I preferred to do nothing without your consent in order that
  your goodness might not be by compulsion but of your own free will. (ESV)

71.6. Do the good works which have been gifted to you

Our works have been gifted to us by God's grace - works of deed and word:

  Ephesians 2:10 - For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for
  good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
  (ESV)

God chose us and called us out of darkness into His marvelous light to
proclaim His excellencies:

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation,
  a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of
  him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. (ESV)

  Matthew 5:16 - In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that
  they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

71.7. Walk in righteousness

  Daniel 12:3 - And those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the
  sky above; and those who turn many to righteousness, like the stars forever
  and ever. (ESV)

71.8. The deeds of glory - Christlikeness

  Hebrews 3:14 - For we share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original
  confidence firm to the end. (ESV)

All the times a person has acted in Christlike obedience:

• forgiving others in knowledge they have been forgiven themselves
• giving mercy to others in knowledge they have themselves received mercy
• encouraging one-another
• serve others
• suffering as a Christian
• etc.

God glorifies Jesus (His Son) so Jesus may glorify Him (God). Jesus glorifies
us (His disciples) so we may glorify Him (Jesus) and glorify God by
glorifying Jesus.

This is obedience.

  John 17:1 - When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to
  heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son that the Son
  may glorify you,

  John 17:4 - I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you
  gave me to do.

God glorifies Jesus. Jesus obeyed God and accomplished the work God gave Him.
Jesus showed God's truthfulness through His obedience. Jesus showed God to be
true and glorified God:

  Romans 15:8-9 - For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the
  circumcised to show God's truthfulness, in order to confirm the promises
  given to the patriarchs, and in order that the Gentiles might glorify God
  for his mercy. As it is written, Therefore I will praise you among the
  Gentiles, and sing to your name.

Jesus glorifies us: We must obey Jesus and accomplish the work God gives us.

  John 8:54 - Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is
  my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say, He is our God.

Jesus is glorified in us - our glory is His glory because we obey Him and
show Jesus's truthfulness as Jesus has shown God's truthfulness:

  John 17:22-23 - The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that
  they may be one even as we are one, I in them and you in me, that they may
  become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved
  them even as you loved me.

Jesus is glorified in us.

  John 17:10 - All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in
  them. (ESV)

Jesus accomplished His work. we must accomplish our work.

  John 17:4 - I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you
  gave me to do.

Christlikeness:

  I Peter 2:12 - Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when
  they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and
  glorify God on the day of visitation.

  Romans 12:1 - I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God,
  to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God,
  which is your spiritual worship.

  Revelation of John 19:8 - it was granted her to clothe herself with fine
  linen, bright and pure— for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the
  saints.

Suffering for Christian obedience, as Christ suffered for His obedience:

  John 21:18-19 - Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used
  to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you are old, you
  will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where
  you do not want to go. (This he said to show by what kind of death he was
  to glorify God. ) And after saying this he said to him, Follow me.

  I Peter 4:16 - Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be
  ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name.

  John 7:7 - The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify
  about it that its works are evil. (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: John Piper Recites from 1 Peter

Please your neighbour for their good:

  Romans 15:2-3 - Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build
  him up. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, The
  reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me.

Welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you. Live in harmony with
one-another, encouraging and serving one another [as Christ did]:

  Romans 15:5-7 May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live
  in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, that
  together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord
  Jesus Christ. Therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you, for
  the glory of God.

Be merciful and serving to others, show God's truthfulness. glorify God by
your conduct. Others then praise God:

  Romans 15:8-9 - For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the
  circumcised to show God's truthfulness, in order to confirm the promises
  given to the patriarchs, and in order that the Gentiles might glorify God
  for his mercy. As it is written, Therefore I will praise you among the
  Gentiles, and sing to your name.

Supply the needs of the saints:

  II Corinthians 9:12 - For the ministry of this service is not only
  supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing in many
  thanksgivings to God.

Be thankful to God:

  II Corinthians 9:13 - By their approval of this service, they will glorify
  God because of your submission flowing from your confession of the gospel
  of Christ, and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all
  others,

Glorification can only come through being found in Jesus Christ:

  Isaiah 42:8 - I am the LORD; that is my name; my glory I give to no other,
  nor my praise to carved idols. (ESV)

And in Jesus Christ there is no sin:

  I John 3:5-6 - You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him
  there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who
  keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.

71.9. Seeing Jesus, appearing in glory

  1 John 3:2 - Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has
  not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him,
  because we shall see him as he is. (ESV)

  1 Corinthians 1:4-8 - I give thanks to my God always for you because of the
  grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus, that in every way you were
  enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge— even as the testimony
  about Christ was confirmed among you— so that you are not lacking in any
  spiritual gift, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ, who
  will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
  (ESV)

  Colossians 3:4 - When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will
  appear with him in glory. (ESV)

  Philippians 1:6 - And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in
  you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

  Philippians 1:10 - so that you may approve what is excellent, and so be
  pure and blameless for the day of Christ, (ESV)

  Philippians 2:16 - holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of
  Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. (ESV)

  John 6:39 - And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose
  nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. (ESV)

71.10. The putting off of the body

  II Peter 1:13-21 - I think it right, as long as I am in this body, to stir
  you up by way of reminder, since I know that the putting off of my body
  will be soon, as our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me. And I will make
  every effort so that after my departure you may be able at any time to
  recall these things. For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we
  made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we
  were eyewitnesses of his majesty. For when he received honor and glory from
  God the Father, and the voice was borne to him by the Majestic Glory, This
  is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased, we ourselves heard this
  very voice borne from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain.
  And we have something more sure, the prophetic word, to which you will do
  well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day
  dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts, knowing this first of all,
  that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. For
  no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as
  they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.

71.11. I think to relax commandments is throw away glorification

  Matthew 5:19 - Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these
  commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the
  kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called
  great in the kingdom of heaven. (ESV)

However, I'm not placing myself under the Mosaic law. My job is to do God's
will, and I believe I have to maintain faithfulness to God with regards to
His will for my life, being led by the Holy Spirit, not making Mosaic law
compliance my objective, but making God's will my objective. So, for example,
that means making disciples of Jesus. Also, that means deepening my
relationship with Jesus.

  Matthew 24:35 - Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass
  away.

72. I was dead and helpless before being made alive in Christ

• youtube.com: Is the Calvinist-Arminian Debate Really Important? @time: 4
min 38 sec

72.1. Before being born-again of the spirit I was thinking worldly/materially

  I Corinthians 2:14 - The natural person does not accept the things of the
  Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand
  them because they are spiritually discerned. (ESV)

72.1.1. I was spiritually blind

  II Corinthians 4:4 - In their case the god of this world has blinded the
  minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel
  of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. (ESV)

72.2. I was quite unable to go against the trajectory of the world

  Romans 8:7 - For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for
  it does not submit to God's law; indeed, it cannot. (ESV)

72.3. In a very real sense I was helpless

I was helplessly:

• stuck in sinful habits,
• struggling with mental energy to try to stay on top of things / get ahead
(of others),
• wondering why everything was going against me, and
• wondering where God is
• wondering why other so-called Christians were not being Christlike

I could not see my spiritual opposition:

  Ephesians 6:12 - For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against
  the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this
  present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly
  places. (ESV)

I felt like giving up, and I cried out to Jesus one night to save me:

  Romans 10:13 - For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be
  saved. (ESV)

72.4. In defense of any type of love for God before being born-again on 2 April
2022

  Hebrews 11:6 - And without faith it is impossible to please him, for
  whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he
  rewards those who seek him. (ESV)

I had already begun to seek God around a year before I was born-again of the
Spirit / regenerated on 2 April 2022.

  Jeremiah 29:13-14 - You will seek me and find me. When you seek me with all
  your heart, I will be found by you, declares the LORD, and I will restore
  your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where
  I have driven you, declares the LORD, and I will bring you back to the
  place from which I sent you into exile. (ESV)

I had begun trying to repent from sin by trying to follow the 10 commandments
from the heart.

72.4.1. With regards to God

Before I was born-again, I had begun speaking out against evil and I had
begun repenting from my evil deeds, but I was still very much spiritually
depraved. God was still working in my life.

  John 7:7 - The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify
  about it that its works are evil. (ESV)

  The doctrine of total depravity asserts that people are, as a result of the
  fall, not inclined or even able to love God wholly with heart, mind, and
  strength, but rather are inclined by nature to serve their own will and
  desires and reject his rule.

  John 14:15-17 - If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will
  ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you
  forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because
  it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and
  will be in you. (ESV)

72.5. Christ's love

Love is:

  I Corinthians 13:4-8 - Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or
  boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is
  not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices
  with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all
  things, endures all things. Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will
  pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass
  away. (ESV)

Required to satisfy the "Christ's love" criteria I believe are:

• Our first agape love has to be Jesus
• We love because God loved us first. We ought to love others because we
have been loved by God
• We forgive out of a loving response to God and to others, knowing we have
already been forgiven of our debt
• It must satisfy Christ's law
• Acceptance comes at the beginning; Jesus gives us the benefit of the
doubt
• Be a servant; consider others more significant than yourself
• Seek to do not harm to your neighbour and not take vengeance
• Bear one another's burdens without partiality
• We should endeavour to love not just on occasion, but at all times,
continually, as Jesus did, and give our all

Our first agape love has to be Jesus:

  Revelation of John 2:1-5 - “To the angel of the church in Ephesus write:
  The One who holds the seven stars in His right hand, the One who walks
  among the seven golden lampstands, says this: ‘I know your deeds and your
  toil and perseverance, and that you cannot tolerate evil men, and you put
  to the test those who call themselves apostles, and they are not, and you
  found them to be false; and you have perseverance and have endured for My
  name’s sake, and have not grown weary. But I have this against you, that
  you have left your first (G4413 protos) love (G26 agape). Therefore
  remember from where you have fallen, and repent and do the deeds you did at
  first; or else I am coming to you and will remove your lampstand out of its
  place–unless you repent. (NASB)

Song
youtube.com: Petra - First Love

Our love is in response to Christ having loved us first:

  I John 4:10-11 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he
  loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if
  God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. (ESV)

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

  Ephesians 4:32 - Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one
  another, as God in Christ forgave you. (ESV)

To love your neighbour as yourself means forgiving them too, and remember
that Jesus forgave us. It also means to not take vengeance (Christ's law
includes not rendering evil for evil):

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

Because God loved us first:

• The Apostle Paul endeavours to know Jesus ('makes it his own'. See Php
| 9-13 below) because Jesus made Paul His own
• To be found in Jesus is what Paul describes as the righteousness
from God that depends on faith
• We know Jesus by believing in Him and obeying His commandments, and
when we love and forgive we know God loved us and forgave us first
• We should love because He loved us first
• Romans 5:7-8 - For one will scarcely die for a righteous
person—though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die—
but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners,
Christ died for us. (ESV)
• We must forgive as we have been forgiven

  Philippians 3:9-13 - and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my
  own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ,
  the righteousness from God that depends on faith— that I may know him and
  the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like
  him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection
  from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect,
  but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
  Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do:
  forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, (ESV)

We should be loving our neighbour continually:

  John 13:1 - Now before the Feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his
  hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his
  own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. (ESV)

72.5.1. Obedience to God and passing forward the love of Christ

It was Father God's will that Jesus went to the cross:

  Luke 22:42 - saying, Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me.
  Nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done. (ESV)

Jesus was willing to do God's will - Jesus was obedient:

  John 10:18 - No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I
  have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again.
  This charge I have received from my Father. (ESV)

In response to forgiveness, we must love:

  Luke 7:47 - Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are
  forgiven—for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.
  (ESV)

He loved us first, and that is why and how we love (knowing we've already
received mercy). Christ's love is not simply charity but a) it's
passing-forward Christ's love, and b) it's to relieve other's burdens (mercy,
not sacrifice):

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

  Acts 2:45 - And they were selling their possessions and belongings and
  distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need. (ESV)

Jesus laid down His life. Maybe this says something about how we should also
lay down our lives for each other:

  John 10:17 - For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my
  life that I may take it up again. (ESV)

  John 15:13 - Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his
  life for his friends. (ESV)

72.6. 2020 (About 1 and a bit years before I was born-again of the Spirit)

I was attempting to prove that "faithful, truthful, unconditional" love
should be the basis of a romantic relationship and I did not have any success
in finding one.

The good part of it was wanting her to be happy. The bad part was that I
wanted to be the solution, when the solution is Jesus.

  I Thessalonians 5:20-21 - Do not despise prophecies, but test everything;
  hold fast what is good. (ESV)

I believe that Jesus gives us unconditional love but that He also gives us
conditional love. There is unconditional love, which extends even to the evil
and the ungrateful. This is just one of those apparent paradoxes. However,
there is some profoundly conditional aspects of God's love to us which
include many promises He makes to those who love Him back:

  John 10:27-28 - My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow
  me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will
  snatch them out of my hand. (ESV)

Polycarp 2:2
Now He that raised Him from the dead will raise us also; if we do His will
and walk in His commandments and love the things which He loved, abstaining
from all unrighteousness, covetousness, love of money, evil speaking, false
witness; not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing or blow for blow
or cursing for cursing;

But in all fairness, at this time I still didn't have a relationship with God
where I considered Christ's law and bearing my neighbour's burdens, doing no
harm and counting others more significant than myself as a defining part of
agape love. And for the sake of trying to solve my own problems, I was not at
all times counting them as more significant them myself, but I think it's
very unfair to say that I did not ever.

  Romans 13:10 - Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the
  fulfilling of the law. (ESV)

  Philippians 2:3-5 - Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility
  count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not
  only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this
  mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, (ESV)

I was still just getting to know Jesus and I had a lot to learn. I believe
that the grace in my life ran out.

I gave up on seeking a romantic relationship with that person because there
was definitely no mutual feeling from them.

That was up until about December 2020.

At the time I was just beginning to learn to keep Jesus' commandments but I
was also trying to fulfill a desire which only Jesus can fill, and I had not
died.

  Colossians 3:3 - For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in
  God. (ESV)

We must love (not just any way you believe it's defined, not even merely with
charity) but in the same way that Jesus loved us - self-sacrificially,
impartially, following Christ's law (bearing one another's burdens) and in a
response to having been loved already:

  John 13:34 - A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another:
  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. (ESV)

  I John 4:10-11 - In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he
  loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if
  God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. (ESV)

  I John 4:19 - We love because he first loved us. (ESV)

Then I was amazed surprised to meet someone else who I simply felt at total
peace with being around, someone who I thought also didn't hate me, after
struggling for years having romantic feelings for people who didn't have any
affection for me at all.

That was around January 2021.

And almost as soon as I met this person I had to let her go for the time
being and I simply worked on Pen.el when it was AI software (before it was
Bible Study software) for the course of 2021. With the AI project I was
building a 'virtual house', but Jesus wants us to allow Him to build our
life:

  Psalms 127:1 - Unless the LORD (3068. Yhvh - Phonetic Spelling:
  (yeh-ho-vaw'), Meaning: Jehovah) builds the house, those who build it labor
  in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in
  vain. (ESV)

  Matthew 7:24 - Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them
  will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. (ESV)

I just say this in order to describe the events leading up to being
born-again, for the sake of others, and so they may know how God drew me to
Jesus to save me, as this is my testimony of being born-again.

Even though from time to time I sin, I do not consider myself to be a
'ravenous wolf' because I'm in a world that is incredibly toxic and
unconducive to holiness. Nor am I a liar by nature - except in a strict
sense, I am by fallen nature, but I'm being sanctified as far as I
understand, so that means I'm being renewed in the likeness of my Creator who
is not a liar. I hate lying, and when I realise I've said something false I
am remoseful. And I rejoice in the truth. Also my first allegiance is always
to Jesus. I am conformed to Jesus, not trying to conform Jesus to me. Jesus
also did battle against demons, and I identify as being with Him, on His
side, of the truth.

youtube.com: C.S. Lewis - God is guiding our lives to the best path @time: 20
min 45 sec
Jesus faced adversities from birth to the cross.

I love Jesus as a response to having been loved by God, and I love God's law,
and God has cleaned my heart and my attitude, and remain faithful to Jesus.
With my mind I serve the law of God, and I have yielded and am yielding my
life to Jesus' control and Lordship, but with my flesh I serve the law of
sin:

  Romans 7:25 - Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I
  myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law
  of sin. (ESV)

God made me born-again of the Spirit. I was spiritually regenerated. God
shone light into my heart, and I embraced Jesus, made following Jesus my
number one priority, and abandoned the false-substitute AI stuff, and have
made a big effort to turn away from sin, and be as obedient as I can:

  John 3:19 - And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world,
  and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their deeds
  were evil. (ESV)

I died and my life is now hidden with Christ in God:

  Colossians 3:3 - For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in
  God. (ESV)

My own obedience/righteousness will never be enough on its own (I also need
to have accepted forgiveness from God by Jesus' blood), but I hate sin
(especially after I have committed it) and I have made an effort to be
conformed to holiness, and I honestly feel like without grace/assistance the
call to "be holy as He is holy" feels impossible. But as far as being right
with God goes, I'm resting on the righteousness that comes through faith in
Jesus so on the day of judgement I hope to receive a "not guilty" verdict,
and the ongoing fear of God I believe is a continuing trust and obedience to
Jesus Christ after accepting Him as Lord and Saviour - accepting the truth of
His Gospel:

• youtube.com: If you are struggling with what to do with sin after you
receive Jesus, take a listen… ?

  Matthew 13:37-43 - He answered, The one who sows the good seed is the Son
  of Man. The field is the world, and the good seed is the children of the
  kingdom. The weeds are the sons of the evil one, and the enemy who sowed
  them is the devil. The harvest is the close of the age, and the reapers are
  angels. Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be
  at the close of the age. The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will
  gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all law-breakers, and throw
  them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and
  gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the
  kingdom of their Father. He who has ears, let him hear. (ESV)

True freedom is found in Jesus, not in the AI stuff:

  Colossians 2:18-21 - Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and
  worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without
  reason by his sensuous mind, and not holding fast to the Head, from whom
  the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and
  ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God. If with Christ you died to
  the elemental spirits of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the
  world, do you submit to regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not
  touch (ESV)

We must keep and accept the precepts of God over the precepts of men:

  Mark 7:6-9 - And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you
  hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but
  their heart is far from me; in vain do they worship me, teaching as
  doctrines the commandments of men. You leave the commandment of God and
  hold to the tradition of men. And he said to them, You have a fine way of
  rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition!
  (ESV)

This passage is condemning submitting to worldly / human precepts and
imploring us to submit to God's precepts. It's not condemning God's precepts
but imploring us to put to death what is against God's precepts:

  Colossians 2:20-23,3:1-6 - If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits
  of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit
  to regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch (referring to
  things that all perish as they are used)—according to human precepts and
  teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made
  religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value
  in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. If then you have been raised with
  Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the
  right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things
  that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ
  in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear
  with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. (ESV)

And now I'm in this situation where I feel like:

• with the first person (a year + before being born-again), the failure was
my own fault and I wasn't really in a relationship with God but I wanted
a Christian wife. I did not propose to her
• I learned from this that a spouse is not supposed to be one's
saviour
• after meeting the second person (a year before being born-again) I
thought everything about it was perfect
• so much peace and joy with not needing anything from her and I could
focus and work, etc. and wait forever to see her.
• But when I met the new girl everything felt right, and at the time I
met her I felt like I definitely wanted to marry her.
• after being born-again, Jesus became the most important person to me and
was still in love with the girl.
• When I had the vision of her on the beach, I thought she was a gift
from God. I proposed to her after seeing her smiling at me on the
street.
• I was brought into court. I needed to reinforce the following again
truth again: that a spouse is not supposed to be one's saviour, and,
also, we're not supposed to be our spouses' saviour either. A spouse
cannot be an idol. Jesus must always be first because Jesus is our
life.

However, it's the husband's role to demonstrate Christ's love, and not deny
their wife to know Jesus:

  Ephesians 5:21-23 - submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.
  Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord. For the husband is the
  head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is
  himself its Savior. (ESV)

In my opinion, everything up to when I proposed to her was good - it was like
heaven in terms of my happiness. It felt right and I felt close to Jesus too.
However, I still had a lot to learn about following Jesus and dying to self.

We are forgiven to do the will of God. We are saved to obey God better. God
puts us into Christ. We obey to wash others, and for ourselves to be
sanctified, like a branch becoming healthier in the tree:

  John 13:12-16 - When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments
  and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I have done
  to you? You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I
  then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash
  one another's feet. For I have given you an example, that you also should
  do just as I have done to you. Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not
  greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent
  him. (ESV)

We are required to:

• forgive others for your sake
• forgive others for their sake
• forgive others as a response of love to Jesus for your sins being
forgiven
• to be able to forgive others is a gift to you and part of glorification
• be merciful to others as we have received mercy

The failure to keep the police bail conditions was still potentially rooted
in my own fault theologically speaking.

I still needed ongoing repentance and sanctification (correction
theologically and behaviorally), and I think that theological error most
likely led to endorsing things which I later wanted to repent from. I felt
like it was urgent to repent from heresy and from publicly affirming that I
would not judge gay marriage, and my need to plead guilty was in the light of
the knowledge of my error.

I understand now from experience that spreading heresy is a very dangerous
thing to do:

  II Peter 2:1 - But false prophets also arose among the people, just as
  there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in
  destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing
  upon themselves swift destruction. (ESV)

  II Peter 2:15-16 - Forsaking the right way, they have gone astray. They
  have followed the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved gain from
  wrongdoing, but was rebuked for his own transgression; a speechless donkey
  spoke with human voice and restrained the prophet's madness. (ESV)

I am not the judge of people. There is only one judge. But I am repentant
from sin and affirm God's precepts, not sin.

Also, my attitude of wanting to remain faithful to the girl began to degrade
my faithfulness to Jesus as I began to make compromises in my writing to
continue affirming faithfulness to the girl.

But ultimately, under test I felt the need to affirm Jesus as being the Truth
and forsake all else, as from my perspective it looked like I was being
tested on relationship idolatry.

Part of why I could not resist but continue blogging, was because of the
sheer injustice I felt regarding my freedom to write, and I felt like there
was this relationship-destroying spirit sabotaging my relationships again,
and whatever thing was completely against faith itself - I had already been
writing on my blog very few times to demonstrate a track record of
faithfulness, and another part was that after I proposed I wanted to
demonstrate faithful waiting in way that was legal (though it was grey, I
guess) as the proposal had not been rejected, and as far as I knew at the
time, copying Reformed Church Quiz Night results on my blog was not illegal,
despite it having elements of her name dispersed in the result answers, or a
picture of a flowerbed on my own Facebook page.

I realise that by doing this may have looked like "poking the bear" and I was
aware of that possibility, but my motivation wasn't to. I'm a human being who
proposed to someone, and I feel like I can in all honesty plead that I was
just being human who was making their first proposal and I felt at the time
like the system opposing me was an evil and graceless machine that was
punishing me for doing what felt right, but also I wasn't exercising perfect
love because otherwise I would not have been even a tiny bit resentful:

  I Corinthians 13:4-8 - Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or
  boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is
  not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices
  with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all
  things, endures all things. Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will
  pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass
  away. (ESV)

Jesus showed perfect love. We then strive to have love perfected with us:

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

Everything seemed to line up:

  The truth is that I was born-again and then I met someone I already liked,
  and decided I wanted to marry when I talked to her and simply had excessive
  joy with and also compassion for and thought God made her for me because
  everything seemed to line up and I was under the impression she liked me
  too. That has never ever happened before that everything has lined up.
  However, one must also consider relationship with God, and I knew/know
  practically nothing about their relationship with God. Perfection would
  include also both parties having joy in God and love for God, for Jesus,
  that remains even when the other person is taken away - in fact it's the
  most important thing in a Christian marriage probably. I would love to have
  more than just baseline joy in God when it's extremely tough. The question
  is do I have it? I would describe my relationship with God and joy over the
  person I wanted to marry as a cake which was mostly composed of icing (20%
  base, 80% icing), when I feel like ideally the composition should be more
  like a cake that was mostly cake and a little bit of icing (80% base, 20%
  icing) - where the joy over the wife is the icing and the joy over God is
  the base. In all honesty, I think I would prefer if it could be mostly cake
  base and icing on the top. God doesn't want to be merely the icing on the
  cake but the foundation of our life.

This sermon helps:

youtube.com: Sustaining Joy in Christ
#8 - "Spend time with God saturated people who will help you see God and
fight the fight of faith." #9 "Read biographies of great Christian Saints."
Now I mention this because it's biblical Hebrews 11 is all about heroes of
the faith.

I think the judiciary system should be careful not to infringe on basic human
rights going forward with the AI-generated fiction which is now in the world,
otherwise as I have said, robots may be taking human wives before poor people
can, and that to God is an abomination I assure you - and I wouldn't want to
tempt God.

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

Tempting God with that seems a worse idea than "poking the bear".

  II Samuel 11:3-5 - And David sent and inquired about the woman. And one
  said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the
  Hittite? So David sent messengers and took her, and she came to him, and he
  lay with her. (Now she had been purifying herself from her uncleanness.)
  Then she returned to her house. And the woman conceived, and she sent and
  told David, I am pregnant. (ESV)

  II Samuel 12:1-18 - And the LORD sent Nathan to David. He came to him and
  said to him, There were two men in a certain city, the one rich and the
  other poor. The rich man had very many flocks and herds, but the poor man
  had nothing but one little ewe lamb, which he had bought. And he brought it
  up, and it grew up with him and with his children. It used to eat of his
  morsel and drink from his cup and lie in his arms, and it was like a
  daughter to him. Now there came a traveler to the rich man, and he was
  unwilling to take one of his own flock or herd to prepare for the guest who
  had come to him, but he took the poor man's lamb and prepared it for the
  man who had come to him. Then David's anger was greatly kindled against the
  man, and he said to Nathan, As the LORD lives, the man who has done this
  deserves to die, and he shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did
  this thing, and because he had no pity. Nathan said to David, You are the
  man! Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, I anointed you king over
  Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul. And I gave you your
  master's house and your master's wives into your arms and gave you the
  house of Israel and of Judah. And if this were too little, I would add to
  you as much more. Why have you despised the word of the LORD, to do what is
  evil in his sight? You have struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword
  and have taken his wife to be your wife and have killed him with the sword
  of the Ammonites. Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your
  house, because you have despised me and have taken the wife of Uriah the
  Hittite to be your wife. Thus says the LORD, Behold, I will raise up evil
  against you out of your own house. And I will take your wives before your
  eyes and give them to your neighbor, and he shall lie with your wives in
  the sight of this sun. For you did it secretly, but I will do this thing
  before all Israel and before the sun. David said to Nathan, I have sinned
  against the LORD. And Nathan said to David, The LORD also has put away your
  sin; you shall not die. Nevertheless, because by this deed you have utterly
  scorned the LORD, the child who is born to you shall die. Then Nathan went
  to his house. And the LORD afflicted the child that Uriah's wife bore to
  David, and he became sick. David therefore sought God on behalf of the
  child. And David fasted and went in and lay all night on the ground. And
  the elders of his house stood beside him, to raise him from the ground, but
  he would not, nor did he eat food with them. On the seventh day the child
  died. And the servants of David were afraid to tell him that the child was
  dead, for they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spoke to
  him, and he did not listen to us. How then can we say to him the child is
  dead? He may do himself some harm. (ESV)

Because of the seriousness of the circumstances, and the fear of God, I'm
prevented from doing much without specific and unambiguous instruction from
God, like an angel:

  Matthew 1:20 - But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the
  Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear
  to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the
  Holy Spirit. (ESV)

  I John 4:1-3 - Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits
  to see whether they are from God, for many false prophets have gone out
  into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that
  confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, and every
  spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of
  the antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already.
  (ESV)

It's right for me to focus on God right now, and remain obedient to Jesus:

youtube.com: 'I Have Loved You'
The revelation of the the Lord's love is unfolded in a way that makes us
tremble.

  James 1:12-18 - Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for
  when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has
  promised to those who love him. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am
  being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself
  tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by
  his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and
  sin when it is fully grown brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my
  beloved brothers. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above,
  coming down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or
  shadow due to change. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of
  truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. (ESV)

youtube.com: The Fullest, Longest Happiness: For Those Who Pass the Test

That lifestyle, that unselfish, other oriented, love your neighbor as
yourself, sacrificial way of life, I'm telling you, is going to be required
of you in the midst of lifelong miseries, which are God's tests.

That's where the obedience of this book (James) is going to be required of
you.

There's no vacation time to do nice obedience and then you can suffer at
another time…

It is design in those tests is your deep and lasting happiness and these
tests provide circumstances through which you are found proven and fit for
the crown of life.

All God's tests are designed to make you deeply and lastingly happy.

Everything else in the text is to help you believe that live that because
life is going to be hard Joy is going to be serious.

From my angle, I had considered myself as the poor man (II Samuel 12:1-18) in
the situation of court and not like David who stole someone's wife, but I had
a lot of repentance to do. I believe I could have asked God to get justice
with this, but then it's better to show mercy even for my own sake,
especially in the knowledge that I have been shown mercy by God. So I know I
have been shown mercy, and I know I should pass forward mercy. Remember the
parable of the unforgiving servant (Matthew 18:21-35):

  James 2:13 - For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy.
  Mercy triumphs over judgment. (ESV)

Despite having already been involved (while on earth) with the courts of
heaven, I will also ultimately stand before God where He will see if I passed
forward mercy after having received mercy:

  II Corinthians 5:10-11 - For we must all appear before the judgment seat of
  Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in
  the body, whether good or evil. Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we
  persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I hope it is known
  also to your conscience. (ESV)

But I did give a letter of forgiveness in court, so there's no (even
spiritual) legal obligation to have this amended. Also, perhaps to them I
have been like David. Despite being made new I still have a "history" from
others' point of view, and having received grace it makes sense to pass
forward grace.

I'm at peace with whatever happens next.

Jesus emptied himself. So despite being born-again, it's right to do the
same:

  II Corinthians 8:9 - For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that
  though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his
  poverty might become rich. (ESV)

We are supposed to have the same mind:

  Philippians 2:5-8 - Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in
  Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality
  with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form
  of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human
  form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even
  death on a cross. (ESV)

But I am allowed to ask God for more grace, but that's between me and God:

  James 4:6-7 - But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the
  proud, but gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God.
  Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. (ESV)

And I'm allowed to speak the truth from my angle:

  Isaiah 41:21 - Set forth your case, says the LORD; bring your proofs, says
  the King of Jacob. (ESV)

I believe strongly that outlawing marriage proposal is very close to
outlawing God, and outlawing my writing was punishing faith which is the way
in which we are supposed to live.

  Hebrews 10:38 - but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks
  back, my soul has no pleasure in him. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 7:1-2 - Now concerning the matters about which you wrote: It
  is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman. But because of
  the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and
  each woman her own husband. (ESV)

I also believe that the situation was interfered with by the influences of
unclean spirits. For all my faults I have been following Jesus, not perfectly
but penitently.

I had to be obedient after going to court:

  John 3:16-21 - For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that
  whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God
  did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that
  the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not
  condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he
  has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the
  judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness
  rather than the light because their deeds were evil. For everyone who does
  wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his
  deeds should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light,
  so that it may be clearly seen that his deeds have been carried out in God.
  (ESV)

I've had to be corrected even after being born-again of the Spirit. Jesus has
to be number one.

I'm no longer interested in AI. I know God is real and is taking care of me.

I realise what has happened regarding me and relationships is messy and the
need to hold no grudge going forward. I offer it to anyone.

Life doesn't feel like the kingdom of God to me currently because that would
involve having this trifecta of righteousness, peace and joy in the Holy
Spirit, and I have felt like I have had my blessings stolen from me by the
enemy, but God is the only one who can solve this for me, but I do have peace
and righteousness in the Holy Spirit, and baseline joy which is derived from
a good conscience with God.

I was quite depressed today <2024-10-23 Wed>. God help me. I wasn't even
jealous. What happened flattened me and shattered me spiritually. God help
me, please.

youtube.com: WHO IS GOD? {Nahum 1:2-7} By John MacArthur @time: 20 min 48 sec
And so God is jealous for his glory. God is also jealous for his love.
Jealousy really only belongs to those who love. Husband and a wife - jealousy
is possible A girlfriend and a boyfriend - jealousy is possible. Jealousy
fits into a love relationship, and so it does with God. God is jealous
because he loves.

youtube.com: WHO IS GOD? {Nahum 1:2-7} By John MacArthur @time: 21 min 34 sec

Hosea, you remember Hosea? Dear old Hosea, the prophet. God gave him really a
wonderful illustration to live in his own life. And God told him to marry a
woman, Gomer, who turned out to be a prostitute. He told him to marry this
woman Gomer who turned out to be a prostitute, and God then said this is a
graphic illustration of what Israel has done to me. Israel has been an
unfaithful wife and God was jealous over Israel because Israel was his love.
And God's heart was grieved. God's heart was indeed broken. God gets jealous
when those he loves are stolen from him by somebody else.

And so God's jealousy is not only the jealousy of honor, but it's the
jealousy of love.

All through the old testament God says I'm jealous for my people, I'm jealous
for my land, I'm jealous for those things that are mine. When god sets his
affection on something and something robs him of that, he's jealous.

At the end of the day, it's good conscience with God I am after and
sanctification:

  Romans 14:17-18 - For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and
  drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever
  thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. (ESV)

A goal is to be content in any situation:

  Philippians 4:11 - Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have
  learned in whatever situation I am to be content. (ESV)

  Hebrews 13:5 - Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with
  what you have, for he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you.
  (ESV)

72.7. Being born-again / being regenerated of Spirit

God made me born-again/regenerated me on 2 April 2022 and following Jesus
became the most important thing.

I was washed and sanctified:

  I Corinthians 6:11 - And such were some of you. But you were washed, you
  were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ
  and by the Spirit of our God. (ESV)

I'm still being sanctified:

  Hebrews 10:14 - For by a single offering he has perfected for all time
  those who are being sanctified. (ESV)

I myself am also trying to cooperate with Jesus and the Holy Spirit to be
sanctified:

  John 17:19 - And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be
  sanctified in truth. (ESV)

An import part of being sanctified and made perfect/complete is having love
perfected with us - getting better at holding no grudges and loving our
neighbour as ourselves and loving God obeying God, and being faithful to God
even with a good conscience with regards to God's precepts:

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

Ever since 2 April 2022 I have been a new creation. I am controlled by the
love of Christ and have stopped thinking like the world thinks, and I've been
living for Christ, and I've been learning to do that better:

  II Corinthians 5:14-17 - For the love of Christ controls us, because we
  have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died;
  and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for
  themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised. From now on,
  therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once
  regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer.
  Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed
  away; behold, the new has come. (ESV)

72.7.1. Court

I had an out-of-body meeting with the Holy Spirit, and a dream on 3 May 2022
foreshadowing 1 year later on 3 May 2023 when I ended up pleading guilty in
court.

I got angry and yelled at the judge in court saying he was a liar because the
judge had made a remark against what I assumed was my water baptism (saying,
"he must have been baptised at midnight"), but my water baptism was an appeal
to God for a good conscience and I was trying to "do good" like in John
| 19-25:

youtube.com: The Hidden Snare of Bitterness @time: 9 min 21 sec
"anger at something because God's purposes are being resisted or God's
character is being maligned not our purposes merely or our character good
anger is targeting sin against God not just assaults against us"

I regretted getting angry in court very much and I'm very sorry about that,
but I was under extreme pressure, not understanding why I was forced to be in
court and I was very upset that even after having arrived at peace pleading
guilty that it was the most loving thing to do, I was provoked to anger by
both judges in court who had the freedom to speak when I did not. But I am
very sorry for my outburst of anger and i hold no grudge to either judge or
to anyone. I really want the spiritual attack against me to end.

But maybe the judge was referring to me meeting the Holy Spirit in my sleep
at 12.30am which may of course have been part of my Holy Spirit baptism -
this is mysterious so we can only speculate.

Also, I'm aware that I've been born-again, saved from walking in darkness and
in sin and the need to pass-forward forgiveness and the need to obey Jesus,
and I'm aware that I was not strictly perfectly innocent. I snapped in court
and I'm sorry about it.

Well, whatever is the reasons for what happened, all humans except for Jesus
have broken God's law - we've all been liars, but God is true. And that is
exactly the reason why I pleaded guilty, and the judge is also guilty:

  Romans 3:4 - By no means! Let God be true though every one were a liar, as
  it is written, That you may be justified in your words, and prevail when
  you are judged. (ESV)

Sproul also had a moment like this:

youtube.com: The Meaning of Holiness: The Holiness of God with R.C. Sproul

I was lecturing on the Lord's Supper, and his question was not so much a
question as an expression of unbridled cynicism.

He put his hand up, and I acknowledged him.

He said, "What's the big deal about bread and wine?

Why do we have to do that?

Why can't we just have peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and coca-cola?"
That's when I lost it.

I just felt this rage just flowing up out of my soul.

He grated my sensitivity when he said that, and instead of giving a polite,
genteel, professorial response to him, I said, "You want to know why we don't
have peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and coca-cola at Holy Communion?

Because Jesus never consecrated peanut butter and jelly or coca-cola." I just
wanted to kill him.

Why?

Because he had just profaned with his question something that was precious
and holy in my experience.

But what is it that makes the bread and the wine so special?

What is it that makes any moment in history so special?

What is it that makes a piece of real estate holy ground?

Why is it that Noah marked the spot where he landed with a – built an altar?

And Abraham built an altar to God.

Why is it that we are drawn to take something that is common and make it
extraordinary because of its significance?

It's not because of the intrinsic value of these objects, but what makes
something sacred, what makes something holy is the touch of God upon it.

When the one who himself is other and different touches that which is
ordinary, it becomes extraordinary.

If someone is angry with his brother, then God may take this matter to
judgement:

  Matthew 5:22 - But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother
  will be liable to judgment; whoever insults his brother will be liable to
  the council; and whoever says, You fool! will be liable to the hell of
  fire. (ESV)

5520. cholaó
Definition: to be melancholy, mad, angry Usage: I am angry with. 5520 xoláō
(akin to 5521 /xolḗ, "gall, bile") – properly, full of bile; (figuratively)
filled with bitter anger and hence harsh (even violent).

If you're unrighteously angry then watch out:

  John 7:19-25 - Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the
  law. Why do you seek to kill me? The crowd answered, You have a demon! Who
  is seeking to kill you? Jesus answered them, I did one deed, and you all
  marvel at it. Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but
  from the fathers), and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath. If on the
  Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be
  broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole
  body well? Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment. Some
  of the people of Jerusalem therefore said, Is not this the man whom they
  seek to kill? (ESV)

3709. orgé
"Orgē comes from the verb oragō meaning, 'to teem, to swell'; and thus
implies that it is not a sudden outburst, but rather (referring to God's)
fixed, controlled, passionate feeling against sin . . . a settled indignation
(so Hendriksen)" (D. E. Hiebert, at 1 Thes 1:10).

Jesus' anger here was a godly grief:

  Mark 3:4-5 - And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or
  to do harm, to save life or to kill? But they were silent. And he looked
  around at them with anger (3709. orgé), grieved at their hardness of heart,
  and said to the man, Stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his
  hand was restored. (ESV)

We must forgive our family in Christ from the heart:

  Matthew 18:33-35 - And should not you have had mercy on your fellow
  servant, as I had mercy on you? And in anger his master delivered him to
  the jailers, until he should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly Father
  will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from your
  heart. (ESV)

Even though I have been born-again, and I think I've been treated with almost
zero grace, even treated unfairly, I do not say I am without sin, and to have
pleaded 'not guilty' as I am seeking to be obedient to Jesus, even while
repenting from certain things which were nothing to do with court, and to not
use the year I was born of the Spirit to make testimony of Jesus I think
would be to dishonour Jesus, as Jesus is my Lord. So for that and also to try
to do no harm to my neighbour, and also because I am not without sin, even
after being washed and regenerated, I pleaded guilty in court. I was upset
because I thought my latest water baptism was being disrespected and because
I was under intense pressure due to what felt like severe spiritual attack
against me in the prior months and an unreasonable lack of reality, grace,
truth, and fear of God in the court yet I know I was not without sin:

  I John 1:8-10 - If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the
  truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to
  forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say
  we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. (ESV)

  Romans 3:4 - By no means! Let God be true though every one were a liar, as
  it is written, That you may be justified in your words, and prevail when
  you are judged. (ESV)

  Romans 3:23 - for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, (ESV)

I was also asked just leading up to Easter what I would plea. I did not want
to test God by pleading not guilty, especially on Easter.

Nor does it make sense to challenge someone in court who you want to marry
because:

• a) that would be illogical because having love for them I do not want
want to hurt them, and
• b) we are supposed to love our wives as Christ loves His church -
self-sacrificially

  I Corinthians 10:9-11 - We must not put Christ to the test, as some of them
  did and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble, as some of them did and
  were destroyed by the Destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an
  example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of
  the ages has come. (ESV)

Nor does it make senses to pit old concerns of my pre-born-again life such as
"a conviction might make it harder to get a job" up against the needs of the
person I want to marry.

There was simply no logic as far as godly wisdom goes to pleading 'not
guilty'.

And we are called to love with Christ's love impartially, so had the court
situation been with different people and with a different charge, Christ's
law still applies:

  James 2:1 - My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our
  Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. (ESV)

  James 2:8-9 - If you really fulfill the royal law according to the
  Scripture, You shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well.
  But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the
  law as transgressors. (ESV)

The judiciary system is right to execute impartial justice:

  Deuteronomy 16:17-20 - Every man shall give as he is able, according to the
  blessing of the LORD your God that he has given you. You shall appoint
  judges and officers in all your towns that the LORD your God is giving you,
  according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with righteous
  judgment. You shall not pervert justice. You shall not show partiality, and
  you shall not accept a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and
  subverts the cause of the righteous. Justice, and only justice, you shall
  follow, that you may live and inherit the land that the LORD your God is
  giving you. (ESV)

  II Chronicles 19:5-7 - He appointed judges in the land in all the fortified
  cities of Judah, city by city, and said to the judges, Consider what you
  do, for you judge not for man but for the LORD. He is with you in giving
  judgment. Now then, let the fear of the LORD be upon you. Be careful what
  you do, for there is no injustice with the LORD our God, or partiality or
  taking bribes. (ESV)

In my situation I obviously needed to hold faith in Jesus:

  Romans 3:19-22 - Now we know that whatever the law says it speaks to those
  who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole
  world may be held accountable to God. For by works of the law no human
  being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge
  of sin. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the
  law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: (ESV)

And it means pleading guilty:

  Romans 3:4 - By no means! Let God be true though every one were a liar, as
  it is written, That you may be justified in your words, and prevail when
  you are judged. (ESV)

  Romans 3:23 - for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, (ESV)

It seems to me like the court in several areas regarded good as evil and evil
as good:

  Proverbs 17:15 - He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the
  righteous are both alike an abomination to the LORD. (ESV)

Good:

• marriage proposal
• repentance, trying to be corrected by the Word of God
• speaking truth
• forgiving

Evil:

• slandering
• punishing good (punishing forgiveness, for example)
• lying, perjury
• making it harder to do the right thing

  Leviticus 19:15 - You shall do no injustice in court. You shall not be
  partial to the poor or defer to the great, but in righteousness shall you
  judge your neighbor. (ESV)

Only Jesus was without sin:

  Hebrews 4:15 - For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize
  with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we
  are, yet without sin. (ESV)

  I John 1:10 - If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his
  word is not in us. (ESV)

  I John 1:8-10 - If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the
  truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to
  forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say
  we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. (ESV)

However graceless I thought the situation was, pleading not guilty from my
perspective would have been:

• not loving my neighbour,
• not trusting God,
• not putting God first before a girl I like,
• and putting Christ to the test by saying I have not done anything wrong

We must not put Christ to the test:

  I Corinthians 10:9-11 - We must not put Christ to the test, as some of them
  did and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble, as some of them did and
  were destroyed by the Destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an
  example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of
  the ages has come. (ESV)

We must remain faithful to God:

  James 2:21-23 - Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he
  offered up his son Isaac on the altar? You see that faith was active along
  with his works, and faith was completed by his works; and the Scripture was
  fulfilled that says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as
  righteousness—and he was called a friend of God. (ESV)

We must not short-sightedly exchange our invaluable inheritance for immediate
relief as Esau did, and do our best to not allow bitterness to damage us
going through the fiery trial:

  Hebrews 12:15-17 - See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God;
  that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble, and by it many
  become defiled; that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who
  sold his birthright for a single meal. For you know that afterward, when he
  desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to
  repent, though he sought it with tears. (ESV)

  Mark 8:35-36 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever
  loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it. For what does it
  profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his life? (ESV)

Despite being born of water and the Spirit, we must commit to offering our
entire life as a living sacrifice for God, to sow our own life for Jesus'
sake:

  II Corinthians 5:17 - Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new
  creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.

  Matthew 16:25 - For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever
  loses his life for my sake will find it. (ESV)

Jesus laid down His life. Maybe this says something about how we should also
lay down our lives for each other:

  John 10:17 - For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my
  life that I may take it up again. (ESV)

Immediately before I had that out-of-body meeting with the Holy Spirit, I had
come to the end of myself after doing everything I could in April, writing to
my pastor Philip.

Because I was trying to be obedient to God after being born-again, and I then
had a prayer request after I considered I had become burnt out from going
"all out for God", having given God my first fruits of being born-again for a
full month.

  Genesis 4:4 - and Abel also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of
  their fat portions. And the LORD had regard for Abel and his offering,
  (ESV)

I was in tears feeling as though I had poured out my heart in obedience to
Jesus, and asked Him for one thing in prayer and it was me crying to God
saying I have given Him everything but I don't have any love in my life and
it was taken from me, then in my heart I accepted that I would see her again
- you could call it faith, or deluding myself on purpose in order that I
would be able to sleep, and I felt immediately better afterwards.

I actually don't think it was a delusion though. I actually think it's the
truth.

  Romans 12:9 - Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is
  good. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 13:4-8 - Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or
  boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is
  not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices
  with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all
  things, endures all things. Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will
  pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass
  away. (ESV)

We are commanded to love our wives the way Jesus did:

Read
https://omny.fm/shows/today/questions-to-ask-before-you-marry-1-12-june-2024

  Ephesians 5:25-27 - Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church
  and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed
  her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the
  church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing,
  that she might be holy and without blemish.

That's how it happened for the record.

I felt as though I was carving out a piece of my heart because it felt as if
I had said to God in my heart that I could only be happy while I held faith
that I'd see her again.

If I recall correctly, that was the night before May 3.

But I certainly felt that way after May 3. I kind-of doubled-down in my heart
regarding that. Part of the reasoning behind that is the joy I had throughout
2021. At this stage (May 3, 2022) I did not know what the significance of the
date was and had no idea what the dream of the policeman questioning me was
about.

  Romans 13:1-7 - Let every person be subject to the governing authorities.
  For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been
  instituted by God. Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what
  God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are
  not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one
  who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his
  approval, for he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be
  afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of
  God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore one
  must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath but also for the sake
  of conscience. For the same reason you also pay taxes, for the authorities
  are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed
  to them: taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed,
  respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. (ESV)

Now to make this slightly more complicated, there was someone I had met
previously who I had feelings for in 2020 but at this stage, after being
born-again, and then seeing her sitting by herself during easter, I had only
compassion and no joy over seeing her by herself.

Still in May 2022 around Pentecost, God, gave me an immersive vision of
healing people with compassion.

One year later on 3 May 2023 I pleaded guilty on Easter, and I pleaded guilty
in full knowledge that God is watching and knows my innermost thoughts and
the fruit of the Spirit while lawful do not justify me. I must carry my cross
and make testimony of Jesus and follow Christ's law.

I experienced what felt like practically no grace in the time leading up to
my dealings with court (though I had blind spots).

In all honesty, though the situation felt graceless, I needed behavioral and
theological correction:

  Matthew 7:5 - You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and
  then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.
  (ESV)

The question is, "Is joy over a wife and a family even something that is
allowed in this world? Or in acting on joy over somebody will I run out of
grace and run up against heaven's courts? Will I get even pushed out of
church communities for wanting to show compassion? Or get pushed out of
church communities for making a marriage proposal out of joy and peace?" That
is what has happened to me. So the root cause of my depression is well
defined. I feel like this has been unfair for me in both cases. I see other
people with wives and families and why am I not allowed one? Who actually
drew me into a situation where I found myself in court over the mariage
proposal? I hold to external spiritual influences and ultimately God was
overseeing it:

  Acts 27:24 - and he said, Do not be afraid, Paul; you must stand before
  Caesar. And behold, God has granted you all those who sail with you. (ESV)

I guess it's quite important to forsake all else for Jesus:

  Luke 14:26 - If anyone comes to me and does not hate (miseo) his own father
  and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even
  his own life, he cannot be my disciple. (ESV)

The Pearl of Great Price is Jesus and we want to gain Christ, know Christ and
invest our lives for His gospel. In following Jesus, eternal life is still a
free gift because as Paul says here, what we give up is worthless compared to
knowing Christ:

  Philippians 3:7-8 - But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake
  of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing
  worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the
  loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain
  Christ (ESV)

I think I John 2:15-17 is essentially saying, "Do not agape love the world or
what's in the world. Do not love the things of this world with the type of
love that we have for God and for people, namely agape love." If we fall out
of agape love for the world and are not conformed to the world but are
transformed by the renewing of our minds then by testing we will be able to
discern the will of God:

  I John 2:15-17 - Do not love (agapate) the world or the things in the
  world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For
  all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the
  eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world.
  And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the
  will of God abides forever. (ESV)

We should forsake:

• the desires of the flesh, and
• the desires of the eyes,
• and pride in possessions

  John 10:10 - The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came
  that they may have life and have it abundantly. (ESV)

Read
star.net.nz: Protect your marriage

But God is our life (we can't trade God for anything):

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

But during the process it was as if all the grace was sucked out of the world
(and to be honest, it's not the first time I've felt like I've been treated
with absolutely no grace - I've felt often shot down for acting on love, joy
and truth - punished for it).

But also, in retrospect I can see that I still had blind spots on myself
after being born-again and entering court and my intuition was I should plead
guilty because it felt like I was under God's microscope. I was right to try
dying to my own ego, and I was right to believe that I was not completely
without guilt, but this took some humbling, and overall I am glad that I
pleaded guilty.

It's very important to maintain a clear conscience with God and with man, but
to be ultimately faithful to God:

  Acts 24:16 - So I always take pains to have a clear conscience toward both
  God and man. (ESV)

Our first allegiance must be to God:

  Philippians 2:8 - And being found in human form, he humbled himself by
  becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. (ESV)

  Acts 5:29 - But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather
  than men. (ESV)

But the NZ government truly did graciously grant me an unbiased lawyer who
graciously was payed for by the government, and the time I spent in the
asylum did help to humble me and teach me more about loving my neighbour, and
to admit my own faults with regards to God's law, but the legality as far as
NZ law goes of me being sent and kept there I'd say is very grey, but the
Police also did their jobs admirably, and took care of me when I was in a
cell, and they also gave me a very small (but valuable) amount of time to be
heard before having to plead guilty/not guilty. There wasn't exactly no grace
in the court process but there was very little grace and an almost complete
absence of truth in the court process, which felt mostly beyond my control.

But I'm on the other side of it now and feel like I have learned a lot about
what it means to love my neighbour.

  Leviticus 19:18 - You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the
  sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am
  the LORD. (ESV)

The corrections process which happened after pleading guilty has been very
gracious and very valuable.

So I decided to just use court as an opportunity to bear witness of Jesus
Christ. And also, as a chance to learn humility, and be corrected:

  Matthew 10:18 - and you will be dragged before governors and kings for my
  sake, to bear witness before them and the Gentiles. (ESV)

Jesus Christ is full of grace and truth:

  John 1:14 - And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen
  his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and
  truth. (ESV)

  John 1:17 - For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came
  through Jesus Christ. (ESV)

Jesus was led like a lamb to the slaughter. I'm not Jesus, but my experience
with court felt a lot like this. I'm an imperfect, fallible person though:

  Isaiah 53:7 - He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his
  mouth; like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that
  before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. (ESV)

The other party, I never considered to be my adversaries! I only ever held
love for them. Spiritually, it's not one side vs another in court but there
are external spiritual influences:

  Ephesians 6:12 - For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against
  the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this
  present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly
  places. (ESV)

youtube.com: How God Uses Satan

Every one of the sufferings that Jesus went through was lifting sin off of us
and sin is the only thing Satan's got to kill us with. It's the only weapon
he's got.

Satan cannot hurt you without sin. If you solve your sin problem, you solve
your Satan problem. He can show you green things in the middle of the night
and terrify you but he cannot hurt you. If Christ saves you from your sin
through the cross he can never have you; never never ever have you aga in.
Satan is the lacky, he's the lacky of God, he can't do anything without God's
leash being lengthened, and God can shorten it anytime he pleases. Somehow or
other God uses Satan as an intermediary cause was in some of the painful work
that he ordains for our good.

Revelation of John 2:10 - Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold,
the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested,
and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I
will give you the crown of life. (ESV)

II Corinthians 12:7-8 - So to keep me from being too elated by the surpassing
greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger
of Satan to harass me, to keep me from being too elated. Three times I
pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. (ESV)

Romans 8:28 - And we know that for those who love God all things work
together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. (ESV)

Jesus commands us to love our enemies:

  Matthew 5:43-48 - You have heard that it was said, You shall love your
  neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray
  for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is
  in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends
  rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you,
  what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if
  you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not
  even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect, as your
  heavenly Father is perfect. (ESV)

  Proverbs 25:21-22 - If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if
  he is thirsty, give him water to drink, for you will heap burning coals on
  his head, and the LORD will reward you. (ESV)

But they were never my enemies because I never considered them my enemy. I
will always love them:

  Didache Chapter 1 - … But love those who hate you, and you shall not have
  an enemy. …

After I was born-again I decided that Jesus was the most important thing and
I began following Jesus, and learning to live by Christ's law.

I made the proposal during this time. I received a dream on 6 Aug, which
happened to be the Feast of Transfiguration, I found out a year or so later,
and made the proposal on 10 Aug, which is the 222 day of 2022, at 2:22pm.
Honestly, at the time I just thought it sounded memorable and I wanted it to
be. Go figure! I'm not going to justify my own actions here.

I find this interesting, notice the word for life (Zoe) has the Strongs
number 2222.

John 5:12 (Interlinar):

|  3588      2192      3588    5207  2192     3588
|  ho        echōn     ton     Huion echei    tēn
|  ὁ         ἔχων      τὸν     Υἱὸν  ἔχει     τὴν
|  The [one] having    the     Son   has       -
|  Art-NMS   V-PPA-NMS Art-AMS N-AMS V-PIA-3S Art-AFS
| 
|  2222    3588      3361 2192      3588    5207
|  zōēn    ho        mē   echōn     ton     Huion
|  ζωήν  ; ὁ         μὴ   ἔχων      τὸν     Υἱὸν
|   life    the [one] not  having    the     Son
|   N-AFS   Art-NMS   Adv  V-PPA-NMS Art-AMS N-AMS
|  
|   3588    2316    3588    2222  3756 2192
|   tou     Theou   tēn     zōēn  ouk  echei
|   τοῦ     Θεοῦ  , τὴν     ζωὴν  οὐκ  ἔχει  .
|    -      of God   -      life  not  has
|   Art-GMS N-GMS   Art-AFS N-AFS Adv  V-PIA-3S

Being born of the Spirit unpredictable:

  John 3:8 - The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you
  do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone
  who is born of the Spirit. (ESV)

I'm endeavouring to work according to God's timing a bit more. I like having
my days managed by the Holy Spirit. I never liked alarm clocks anyway:

  Matthew 6:34 - Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow
  will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble.
  (ESV)

God's timing is not in any way predictable by man:

  Matthew 25:13 - Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour.
  (ESV)

  Isaiah 55:8-9 - For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your
  ways my ways, declares the LORD. For as the heavens are higher than the
  earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your
  thoughts. (ESV)

Honestly, I'm just really annoyed I haven't managed to put to death all
impure thoughts and behaviour, and sin in my own body.

  Romans 7:24 - Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of
  death? (ESV)

But I know when it's wrong. I just pray for God's grace to be put all the
impure thoughts and behaviour to death. I am fully aware of the warnings in
chapter II Peter 2:1-22. God give me grace please to be sanctified and
delivered:

  II Peter 2:22 - What the true proverb says has happened to them: The dog
  returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing herself, returns to
  wallow in the mire. (ESV)

Keeping with obedience to Jesus Christ's commandments is very challenging as
the world opposes those who Christ has selected.

  John 15:19 - If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own;
  but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world,
  therefore the world hates you. (ESV)

I personally believe that fulfilling Christ's law means doing no harm to your
neighbour and pleading guilty does the least damage. Where pleading not
guilty on easter would be not carrying my cross, and would be like the
unforgiving servant:

  Matthew 18:21-35 - Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will
  my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times? Jesus
  said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven.
  Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to
  settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought
  to him who owed him ten thousand talents. And since he could not pay, his
  master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he
  had, and payment to be made. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring
  him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything. And out of pity
  for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt.
  But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants
  who owed him a hundred denarii, and seizing him, he began to choke him,
  saying, Pay what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with
  him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you. He refused and went and put
  him in prison until he should pay the debt. When his fellow servants saw
  what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and
  reported to their master all that had taken place. Then his master summoned
  him and said to him, You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt
  because you pleaded with me. And should not you have had mercy on your
  fellow servant, as I had mercy on you? And in anger his master delivered
  him to the jailers, until he should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly
  Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from
  your heart. (ESV)

I do not say I have done this perfectly, but I record this because I want to
explain what obedient faith looks like, as I understand it, and to show that
I simply meant no harm at all but I was simply born-again and I come against
any spirit which ties to oppose that fact in Jesus Christ's name, and in
Jehovah's name.

Also, in Jesus Christ's name I come against and rebuke any vindictive spirit
or spirit of unforgiveness / antichrist / hatred / slander which continues to
meddle in my affairs regarding the court process of 2022-2023 at the expense
of either party (i.e. framing it as a zero-sum game where only one party must
be innocent or only one party guilty) when I have pleaded guilty in good
conscience before God and forgiven and I come against and rebuke any spirit
which denies that both parties are guilty before God and in need of
forgiveness and justification by God, and I pray that anyone involving
themselves will learn the meaning of forgiveness, and pray they will come to
exercise the love of Christ so they may abide in God:

  Romans 3:23-24 - for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
  and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in
  Christ Jesus, (ESV)

  Colossians 3:12-13 - Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved,
  compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one
  another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other;
  as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. (ESV)

Forgiveness is very important:

  Matthew 5:25 - Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going
  with him to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge, and the
  judge to the guard, and you be put in prison. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:14 - For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly
  Father will also forgive you, (ESV)

Obedient faith looks like remaining faithful to Jesus Christ to one's best
ability as an appropriate response of love for grace and justification
already given - we hope that justification has already been given but we
continue to obey God. We don't act like justification and obedience was a one
time thing that happened in the past and now there's no more need to trust,
hope and obey even for justification. We don't justify ourselves. Rather, we
believe that God justifies the one who has faith in Jesus, and we don't stop
having faith in Jesus - we live by that faith, now serving God. Living by
faith in Jesus Christ looks like trusting, cleaving to, believing, obeying
Jesus Christ to the end, putting our trust in God to justify even the
ungodly. We don't justify ourselves but we still have faith to be justified
by God as we hold faith in Jesus. We have faith that we are justified in
advance of receiving that personal commendation from Jesus which we seek, but
that doesn't mean we don't need to continue to obey! We still seek personal
commendation from the Lord Jesus as we do not justify ourselves. So we should
still live in faithful obedience to Jesus, following Him for the rest of our
lives - just like Abraham's faith.

Jesus delivers us from the present evil age, that we may seek to please God
as slaves/bond-servants of Christ:

  Galatians 1:1-10 - Paul, an apostle—not from men nor through man, but
  through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead— and
  all the brothers who are with me, To the churches of Galatia: Grace to you
  and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself
  for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will
  of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. I am
  astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the
  grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel — not that there is
  another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the
  gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to
  you a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed.
  As we have said before, so now I say again: If anyone is preaching to you a
  gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. For am I now
  seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I
  were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. (ESV)

The saving grace we receive is primarily for the salvation of our souls, not
in order to be materially-minded and agape loving the world (i.e. we're
supposed to live godly lives in the knowledge of God, not ungodly lives
living for materialism or false gods/idols) - but as we have fellowship with
the brethren, we may live in peace and contentedness:

  Ephesians 4:7 - But grace was given to each one of us according to the
  measure of Christ's gift. (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:5 - even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive
  together with Christ—by grace you have been saved— (ESV)

But I'm still hoping for more grace:

  James 4:6 - But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the
  proud, but gives grace to the humble. (ESV)

  I Peter 5:10 - And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all
  grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself
  restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. (ESV)

What I mean to say is that, I think God is still justified in giving only
enough grace to save the person's soul, while allowing them to be put to
death for a response of obedience to Him.

  Ephesians 4:7 - But grace was given to each one of us according to the
  measure of Christ's gift. (ESV)

We can still ask for more grace when we are in need:

  Hebrews 4:16 - Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of
  grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.
  (ESV)

Consider St Polycarp
en.wikipedia.org: Polycarp - Wikipedia

I had to sacrifice the marriage proposal I made being born again in order to
not put her in first place, and also to abide by Christ's law because selfish
agape is no agape at all and love comes from God, and it's because God loved
us first that we love, and whatever is not done in faith is sin and without
the type of love Jesus showed us, faith is dead. And this is challenging ask
but it's what God asks of us.

We are faithful first and foremost to God:

  I Corinthians 7:12-15 - To the rest I say (I, not the Lord) that if any
  brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents to live with him,
  he should not divorce her. If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever,
  and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him. For the
  unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving
  wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise your children would be
  unclean, but as it is, they are holy. But if the unbelieving partner
  separates, let it be so. In such cases the brother or sister is not
  enslaved. God has called you to peace. (ESV)

I am a new creation:

  II Corinthians 5:14-17 - For the love of Christ controls us, because we
  have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died;
  and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for
  themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised. From now on,
  therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once
  regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer.
  Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed
  away; behold, the new has come.

Being a new creation is a new start where we are repenting from sin, and
putting on holiness, and walking according to the spirit fulfilling the
requirement of the law:

  Colossians 3:5-10 - Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. In these you too
  once walked, when you were living in them. But now you must put them all
  away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do
  not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its
  practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge
  after the image of its creator.

  Romans 8:3-4 - For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could
  not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin,
  he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of
  the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but
  according to the Spirit. (ESV)

  In anticipation of any spiritual backlash I will leave the following
  disclaimer
  In Jesus Christ's name I rebuke any spirit which tries to put the old
  issues of the past (before I was born-again on 2 April 2022) back on to me.
  I am a new Creation in Christ Jesus ever since I was born-again and
  regenerated on 2 April 2022. As I understand it, as of then I had a
  completely clean record. I'm basically 2 years old. On top of that there is
  no condemnation for those in Christ Jesus. Yes the Apostle John says that
  we ought to pass-forward love as a response, but I also have the right to
  move on completely from things which did not work out, and I offer that
  same right to others as well.

Our debt was cancelled:

  Colossians 2:11-15 - In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision
  made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the
  circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which
  you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God,
  who raised him from the dead. And you, who were dead in your trespasses and
  the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having
  forgiven us all our trespasses, by canceling the record of debt that stood
  against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the
  cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame,
  by triumphing over them in him. (ESV)

Therefore, since I am a new creation, brought from death to life, I must live
out the new identity. I'm currently fighting this battle:

  Romans 6:12-14 - Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies, to make
  you obey their passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments
  for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been
  brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for
  righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not
  under law but under grace. (ESV)

youtube.com: The Effort Needed to Fight Sin: Living Out Identity in Christ,
Part 2

We love in the knowledge we have already been loved first when God sent Jesus
Christ to pay for our sin with His blood. I was born-again of the Spirit and
regenerated on 2 April 2022.

That's how we are found in God, by accepting that He loved us first through
Jesus Christ, and God puts us into Him.

  John 13:6-7 - He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my
  feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but
  afterward you will understand. (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:5 - even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive
  together with Christ—by grace you have been saved— (ESV)

As far as my court situation goes, it happened after I was born-again and
regenerated. My debt was already cancelled. I want to be clear about this
because I don't want to mislead anyone. I strongly believe that I was hit by
an antichrist spirit trying to make it appear as though I needed to work for
my salvation - this happened after I was born of the Spirit! Madness! I had
just been born-again!

I've also been hit with other things, like being pounded and barraged with
LGBT dreams, and lewd antichrist dreams and visions, interactions with people
who just don't want to submit to the righteousness of God (not believing they
need to accept Jesus as Saviour, not believing they need to accept
forgiveness from God, or the Lordship of Jesus, not wanting to obey God) and
also people telling me that following Jesus' commandments is wrong, and also
literally having antichrist thoughts pushed into my head as I am sleeping.
There's no denying I've been attacked by antichrist spirits and I noticed it
after I was born-again of the Spirit - and I don't want a bar of it.

While the following verse seems relevant, I still believe the real adversary
I have faced is not the other people in my court situation but the influence
of unclean spirits:

  Matthew 5:25-26 - Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are
  going with him to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge, and
  the judge to the guard, and you be put in prison. Truly, I say to you, you
  will never get out until you have paid the last penny. (ESV)

We must turn to obedience to Jesus and loving with Christ's love to come to
know Him. We ought to love as Christ loved us, as He is our Lord and Teacher,
but Jesus WASHED (past-tense) us and then we ought to love as He did and we
practice personal righteousness while having His imputed righteousness, as he
is our Master.

We are forgiven to do the will of God. We are saved to obey God better. God
puts us into Christ. We obey to wash others, and for ourselves to be
sanctified, like a branch becoming healthier in the tree:

  John 13:12-16 - When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments
  and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I have done
  to you? You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I
  then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash
  one another's feet. For I have given you an example, that you also should
  do just as I have done to you. Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not
  greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent
  him. (ESV)

Christians are instructed to love our enemies, to have the love of our
Heavenly Father:

  Matthew 5:43-44 - You have heard that it was said, You shall love your
  neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray
  for those who persecute you, (ESV)

I still believe strongly that there was an antichrist spirit meddling in the
situation with court in 2022, diametrically opposed to grace, Christian
marriage, forgiveness, mercy, and the truth of Jesus, with an agenda of
pressuring me to be deceived into thinking I was not forgiven, and pressuring
me to be deceived that I needed to pay for my salvation with good works, but
I have done all my good works out of obedience, knowing I am born again and
forgiven, price paid in full with Jesus' blood.

I have lots of evidence of this. Jehovah knows it.

Sermon

He says in Revelation 12:10, he said, first-hand, "for the accuser of the
brethren who accuses them before God day and night has been cast out."

Here's what I want you to see: The thing that's going to cause complete and
total breakthrough is not you defeating a demon on a battlefield…

It is you silencing the argument of a demon against you.

When you silence the voice of the accuser the full breakthrough is now free
to come you see.

In other words, what is stopping us from coming into the full breakthrough
God has for us is not a demon on a battlefield, it's an argument in the
spirit world against you.

And we have to know how to go in to the spirit world in silence that
argument.

We have to know how to accomplish that because when we do, when we were able
to silence the argument, then all of a sudden everything that we were made
for, everything that we were were created to accomplish, every destiny every
purpose ,every breakthrough begins to be set into place so that we can
experience what God has for us.

Because that's what you have to do with an accuser.

Now, the next verse tells us how to do.

Here's what he says he says, "and they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb
and by the word of their testimony and they did not love their lives unto
death." So there's three things he says here, three things that are necessary
to overcome the accuser.

He says very clearly, it says, "these are the way they overcame him".

This is the way they silenced the legal argument against them, was they
overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, the word of their testimony and they
loved not their lives unto death.

Okay, number one, the blood of the Lamb, and we've talked about this a little
bit but the blood of the Lamb is what you use to dismiss cases against you.

That's what you do with the blood.

The blood is used to dismiss cases that the enemy would claim against you.

Why?

Because when I come and I repent, when I come and I repent and through my
repentance agree with the blood of lamb, when I do that then what happens is
that the blood is able to now silence the voices that would be speaking
against me that the accuser would be using.

Okay, so I use that or I use the blood to silence the voice of course that's
Hebrews12:24 - and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the
sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. (ESV) Now
let me just show you one scripture.

Why it's important to repent: I John 1:7 - But if we walk in the light, as he
is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus
his Son cleanses us from all sin. (ESV) It literally says keeps on cleansing
us from all sin.

That's why - that's actually the verbiage

• it keeps on cleansing us - why because

the blood is 'not that which was spoke, it is that which is speaking'.

That's what it said.

There was a blood that speaks better things.

The blood isn't something that was spoke about you.

The blood is speaking concerning you.

So watch, it says that the blood keeps on cleansing us from all sin but only
when we walk in the light as he is in the light See what does that mean?

That means I come out of darkness into the light.

That means I have to repent.

Repentance is coming out of darkness and into light.

So you cannot get the benefits of the blood, you cannot agree with what the
blood is saying about you unless you come out of darkness and into light.

As we walk in the light as he is in the light, the blood of Jesus keeps on
cleansing us from all unrighteousness at all sins.

Does that make sense?

So it's very important to repent: that we come and we acknowledge, we come in
yoder hearts, we come in surrender, we ask for the blood to speak in our
behalf, and it begins to speak in our behalf, and the cases that are against
us whether it's because by sin by transgression or by iniquity, those cases
are dismissed.

  In Jesus Christ's name I rebuke the antichrist spirit which continues to
  attack me and deny the grace, forgiveness and atonement which I have
  received through faith in Jesus Christ, as if God has not forgiven me
  especially in regards to the sins of my past particularly before I was
  born-again of water and the Spirit on 2 April 2022. I rebuke that spirit in
  Jesus Christ's name and in Jehovah's name. Also as I continue walking in
  the light as Jesus is in the light, even when I sin, the blood of Jesus
  continues to wash me clean. So in Jesus Christ's name I rebuke any
  antichrist spirit continuing to bother me, whether in my sleep or through
  other people.

When it comes to 'works' and 'law-keeping', I believe disciples of Jesus
should know they have been forgiven by grace through faith and they should
also practice their righteousness. Christians should both submit to the
righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ, having the imputed
righteousness of Christ that we believe we have as we are walking with Christ
and Christians should practice righteousness too (as Jesus said, "go and sin
no more"), and Christians should seek to keep accountability primarily to God
in regards to the law because He sees everything, and secondarily have good
conscience with men, to love as Jesus loved, and give to Caesar what is
Caesar's, but give to God what is God's - and God owns our hearts - and we
should be prepared to die for Jesus, and remain faithful to Jesus:

  Matthew 23:2-7 - The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so
  practice and observe whatever they tell you—but not what they do. For they
  preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and
  lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move
  them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For
  they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long, and they love
  the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues and
  greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others. (ESV)

Our work for God is not in vain, and it's all grace:

  I Corinthians 15:58 - Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast,
  immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the
  Lord your labor is not in vain. (ESV)

But at the time I was being led by the Spirit, walking in seeking to know
Jesus Christ through following His commandments, so I decided I would use it
as an opportunity in what felt like a graceless situation to demonstrate
Christ's love and to make testimony of Jesus, and to 'take any log out of my
own eye' - to be corrected - because despite already walking in obedience to
Jesus, He is my Lord and Teacher, and I want to love Jesus more and be taught
by Jesus more.

Most importantly is a good conscience with God, but I try also to do right
with my fellow man, even if I disagree with them or if I think they may not
be walking in Christ's love:

  Acts 24:16 - So I always take pains to have a clear conscience toward both
  God and man. (ESV)

Paid the last penny? I believe that Jesus paid my debt, and by faith in Jesus
I was born-again of Jesus' Spirit and I was grafted into Jesus, but that I
should pass forward mercy and forgiveness, thus it looks like being taken to
court as a criminal, but I think the situation reflects having been put into
Christ and following as a disciple and friend of Jesus:

  Matthew 5:26 - Truly, I say to you, you will never get out until you have
  paid the last penny. (ESV)

  Colossians 2:14 - by canceling the record of debt that stood against us
  with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. (ESV)

Jesus went to the cross in the appearance of a criminal, but He committed no
crime:

  John 10:18 - No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I
  have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again.
  This charge I have received from my Father. (ESV)

I can't claim perfect innocence:

  I John 1:8-10 - If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the
  truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to
  forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say
  we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. (ESV)

  Romans 3:4 - By no means! Let God be true though every one were a liar, as
  it is written, That you may be justified in your words, and prevail when
  you are judged. (ESV)

  Romans 3:23 - for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, (ESV)

What I can do is apply Jesus' instructions for being His disciple, and bear
fruit for Jesus:

  John 15:1-14 - I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. Every
  branch of mine that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch
  that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you
  are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I
  in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the
  vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine; you are the
  branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much
  fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me
  he is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered,
  thrown into the fire, and burned. If you abide in me, and my words abide in
  you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. By this my Father
  is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. As
  the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep
  my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's
  commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you, that
  my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. This is my
  commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love
  has no one than this, that someone lays down his life for his friends. You
  are my friends if you do what I command you.

We must practice the truth:

  John 3:21 - But he who practices the truth comes to the Light, so that his
  deeds may be manifested as having been wrought in God.”

  Hebrews 10:14 - For by a single offering he has perfected for all time
  those who are being sanctified.

Even though my debt was cancelled, and I was a new creation, born-again of
water and the Spirit, washed in Jesus' blood, I still obey Jesus to
pass-forward love and forgiveness to others, and to continue being cleansed
by the blood of Jesus. I must continue walking in the light.

After being born-again of the spirit I don't say I'm completely sinless -
that would be deceiving myself.

But I continue walking in the light, in trusting obedience to Jesus, and
Jesus' blood continues to cleanse me from all sin:

  I John 1:7-9 - But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
  fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
  from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth
  is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
  our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. (ESV)

Sometimes you don't know if you're in the right or wrong, so forgiving
others' offences towards you is freeing yourself:

  Matthew 18:21-35 - Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will
  my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times? Jesus
  said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven.
  Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to
  settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought
  to him who owed him ten thousand talents. And since he could not pay, his
  master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he
  had, and payment to be made. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring
  him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything. And out of pity
  for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt.
  But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants
  who owed him a hundred denarii, and seizing him, he began to choke him,
  saying, Pay what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with
  him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you. He refused and went and put
  him in prison until he should pay the debt. When his fellow servants saw
  what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and
  reported to their master all that had taken place. Then his master summoned
  him and said to him, You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt
  because you pleaded with me. And should not you have had mercy on your
  fellow servant, as I had mercy on you? And in anger his master delivered
  him to the jailers, until he should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly
  Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from
  your heart. (ESV)

AMEN!! This doesn't justify the mistakes I've made in the past, but I do
believe that the Son of God dying on the cross and making me into a new
creation should be enough atonement from anyone's perspective to allow me to
have a clean slate, have a fresh start, change my ways, and to live rightly
without being harassed by people or by evil spirits. But I also want to be
found to be a disciple of Jesus, passing forward His love and forgiveness, as
I have received it:

  Romans 6:11 - So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to
  God in Christ Jesus. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Worthy | Live | Elevation Worship

I wont allow myself to be buried in condemnation by other people or by the
enemy. Rather, I'll just use this as an opportunity to live faithfully to God
with gratitude and an appropriate response of obedience and love for God and
love for Jesus while on this earth:

  Romans 6:12-13 - Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies, to make
  you obey their passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments
  for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been
  brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for
  righteousness. (ESV)

star.net.nz: How to have peace (3) - June 10th
(2) Accept God’s pardon. Guilt is the top destroyer of peace. When we feel
guilty, we feel haunted by our past. We read about people who make amends for
a wrong they committed thirty years earlier, saying, ‘I was living in hell
all those years and had to get it off my chest.’ The only way to have peace
is to possess a clear conscience, and only God is able to give you that. ‘Who
is a God like you, who pardons sin and forgives…transgression?…You do not
stay angry forever but delight to show mercy’ (Micah 7:18 NIV). Notice, Micah
reveals God is eager – ready and waiting – to clean your slate. He enjoys
forgiving. He owns a big eraser. It’s his personality: ‘If we confess our
sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from
all unrighteousness’ (1 John 1:9 NIV).

  Isaiah 54:17 - no weapon that is fashioned against you shall succeed, and
  you shall confute every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is
  the heritage of the servants of the LORD and their vindication from me,
  declares the LORD. (ESV)

  Matthew 24:9 - Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to
  death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. (ESV)

Now I'm saying that it's all in God's hands, and I've made an effort to have
Jesus as the number one most important person in my life, and I feel like I
have a good conscience with God, and I have been acting in truth (I have
peace, and joy, and the fruit of the Holy Spirit with my decisions and I
wouldn't change much. I'd still have made the proposal. It wasn't a mistake)
and trying to conform to God's truth and also, trying to walk with faith in
Jesus Christ, and fully with God, to my best endeavor, but God is the
justifier. And I am as far as I can tell now in good conscience with God and
a bachelor.

  I Timothy 1:19 - holding faith and a good conscience. By rejecting this,
  some have made shipwreck of their faith, (ESV)

  Job 22:24-26 - if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the
  stones of the torrent bed, then the Almighty will be your gold and your
  precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and
  lift up your face to God. (ESV)

God wants us to love Him, treasure Him (25. agapaó), value Him with all our
heart, and love and value and treasure one another (25. agapaó) as ourselves
youtube.com: What Is It Like to Enjoy God? @time: 35 min 16 sec

I have absolutely no unforgiveness or grudge with anyone involved regarding
what has happened with the marriage proposal and I just want God to
completely deliver me from the evil.

I still hope for the personal acknowledgement from God that I have acted
faithfully to Him!

  Matthew 25:21 - His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful
  servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much.
  Enter into the joy of your master. (ESV)

We're always seeking God's commendation:

  Galatians 1:10 - For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am
  I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not
  be a servant of Christ. (ESV)

The righteous live by their faith in Jesus - in belief to His promises and in
obedience to His commandments all of our life as Christians - hoping for
God's commendation.

We live to serve Jesus, believing we are justified by our faith in Him, and
not relying on our own righteousness, but we're still living by our faith in
God and in Jesus His Son.

I think it's possible to say, "I've been justified by Jesus' blood because
I'm having faith in Jesus and I'm living to serve Him and I believe He is
saving me from the wrath of God and I'm going to continue believing and
obeying Him to receive the sanctification."

And then we await personal commendation from God.

Disbelief causes disobedience. Disbelief caused the Israelites to not walk in
obedience:

  Hebrews 3:16-19 - For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not
  all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for
  forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the
  wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest,
  but to those who were disobedient? So we see that they were unable to enter
  because of unbelief. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:13 - though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and
  insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in
  unbelief, (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:5-12 - Nevertheless, with most of them God was not
  pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now these things took
  place as examples for us, that we might not desire evil as they did. Do not
  be idolaters as some of them were; as it is written, The people sat down to
  eat and drink and rose up to play. We must not indulge in sexual immorality
  as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We
  must not put Christ to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by
  serpents, nor grumble, as some of them did and were destroyed by the
  Destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were
  written down for our instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come.
  Therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall.
  (ESV)

I think it's dangerous and probably incorrect to say, "I've been justified
and saved from the wrath of God" without having become trustingly obedient to
Jesus, or without having become someone steadfastly hoping in Him to fulfill
His promises.

  Hebrews 6:11-15 - And we desire each one of you to show the same
  earnestness to have the full assurance of hope until the end, so that you
  may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience
  inherit the promises. For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had
  no one greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself, saying, Surely I will
  bless you and multiply you. And thus Abraham, having patiently waited,
  obtained the promise. (ESV)

  Hebrews 4:3 - For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, As
  I swore in my wrath, They shall not enter my rest, although his works were
  finished from the foundation of the world. (ESV)

  Hebrews 3:14-15 - For we share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original
  confidence firm to the end. As it is said, Today, if you hear his voice, do
  not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. (ESV)

We aren't the justifiers of ourselves ever, but we still have faith that we
are justified already by God as we hold faith in Jesus, and we don't
necessarily know when God has personally justified us by faith because, like
Abraham's faith, it's from obedience to God's commandments that we get
personal assurance. But if we are hoping in God's promises while serving
Jesus then we certainly can have confidence that God will/has justified us,
where if we are not agapé-ing God and our family in Christ, serving Jesus
then I think to say that we are justified and saved from God's wrath while
going on doing evil is very daring and I wouldn't be surprised if that person
receives the wrath of God.

  Romans 2:6-11 - He will render to each one according to his works: to those
  who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he
  will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey
  the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There
  will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the
  Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor and peace for everyone
  who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no
  partiality. (ESV)

  II Peter 2:4-9 - For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast
  them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept
  until the judgment; if he did not spare the ancient world, but preserved
  Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when he brought a flood
  upon the world of the ungodly; if by turning the cities of Sodom and
  Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them to extinction, making them an example
  of what is going to happen to the ungodly; and if he rescued righteous Lot,
  greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked (for as that
  righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his
  righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard); then the
  Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous
  under punishment until the day of judgment, (ESV)

Faith maintains hope in God to fulfill His promises:

youtube.com: Future-Oriented Faith

Justifying faith, the faith that justifies you that makes you right with God
that receives the imputation of righteousness is future-oriented faith in the
promises of God.

Faith first looks back to Jesus and it takes a step back and says, "I believe
God Almighty sent his son died for my sins raised him from the dead covers
all my sins imputes to me his righteousness" and standing on that rock of
past accomplished salvation, faith looks steadfastly into the future … and
faith on the basis of this assurance and security believes the promises of
God for this reality called future and that's the way we live.

See how faithfulness is related to faith - faith is faithful to God. Having
faith in God is keeping accountability with God with regard to His commands
and promises and maintaining faithfulness with God who sees in secret:

  II Timothy 2:13 - if we are faithless, he remains faithful— for he cannot
  deny himself. (ESV)

  Hebrews 10:30-31 - For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine; I will
  repay. And again, The Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful thing to
  fall into the hands of the living God. (ESV)

We are justified through holding faith in Jesus:

  Romans 3:21-28 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Then what becomes of our
  boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but
  by the law of faith. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from
  works of the law. (ESV)

There is a way of following the commandments of God that is by faith,
compatible with keeping faith in Jesus, and that is in seeking praise from
God, not from men - it's not about trying to keep a good conscience by
justifying yourself in the eyes of men, but it's about keeping a good
conscience by keeping accounts with God:

  Romans 2:26-29 - So, if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of
  the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he
  who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have
  the written code and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew
  who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But
  a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the
  Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man but from God. (ESV)

  Romans 5:1-2 - Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have
  peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also
  obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice
  in hope of the glory of God. (ESV)

It may have happened when we first believed. I would suggest holding to that
belief and going on obeying Jesus like someone alive from the dead, serving
God:

  John 3:36 - He who believes in the Son has eternal life; but he who does
  not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him.”

I just want to continue to live faithfully to Jesus for the rest of my life,
as I also hold faith that God is my justifier. I want God to justify me /
have justified me, as the way in which we are justified is that God does the
justifing of the one who has faith in Jesus. So the plan is to really be
transformed by the gospel and live in the truth of God's word, and seek God's
commendation, and live in the reality that God is for me and not against me
as I hold faith in Jesus. I'll give it my best shot:

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

It certainly appears that we're not supposed to simply do some righteous
thing and then lean on that. Rather we're supposed to 'live by' our faith, –
keep going, and not shrink back:

  Ezekiel 33:13 - Though I say to the righteous that he shall surely live,
  yet if he trusts in his righteousness and does injustice, none of his
  righteous deeds shall be remembered, but in his injustice that he has done
  he shall die. (ESV)

  Proverbs 4:18 - But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn,
  which shines brighter and brighter until full day. (ESV)

We should be growing in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ:

  II Peter 3:18 - But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior
  Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity.
  Amen. (ESV)

This is in line with what is written in Hebrews:

  Hebrews 10:37-39 - For, Yet a little while, and the coming one will come
  and will not delay; but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he
  shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who
  shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve
  their souls. (ESV)

This morning <2024-10-13 Sun>, I woke up to a dream of my Dad and my little
brother Joshua in the bosom of my Dad and my Dad said, "Pardon me." - I woke
up and thought about this. God doesn't make mistakes. We should not hold
grudges with God, but instead we should be sanctified through faith in Jesus.
We are to agape love God with our whole heart.

And I remembered this Bible verse:

  John 1:18 - No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's
  side, he has made him known. (ESV)

Now, writing this out, I realise it connects to this verse:

  Matthew 5:8 - Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. (ESV)

Recently, I have written about agape-love. Jesus commanded us to agape love
the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind and strength. Agape love does
not bear a grudge or take vengeance. Agape love is a saving, treasuring,
valuing, love. We need to treasure Jesus' words, and treasure God Himself.
God has to be our number one treasure and we must agape-love our wives too
with the same agape love which Christ showed us, and we must agape-love those
in Christ, and we are called to agape-love all people but we must not have
any agape for anything of the world. And I know that what the dream I had was
saying was pointing out that agape-loving God first also means not bearing a
grudge with God.

  Job 9:2-3 - Truly I know that it is so: But how can a man be in the right
  before God? If one wished to contend with him, one could not answer him
  once in a thousand times. (ESV)

I was born-again on 1 Nisan, (2 April 2022). Then had a meeting with Holy
Spirit on 3 May 2022 and I said my God is the True God and Jesus saved me
from lies. Then on 6 Aug 2022 (feast of transfiguration of Christ) I had a
dream/vision of someone I wanted to marry and on the 10 Aug, the 222nd day of
2022 at 2:22pm I proposed marriage. Then it felt like witchcraft - I was
pulled into court over harassment and forced to plead a week before easter. I
pleaded guilty because I was following Jesus' commandments, and only because
in an extremely strict sense I am guilty. I claim that it felt like all the
grace in the world was utterly sucked out of the world when I was pulled into
court for breaking bail by copying out reformed church quiz night results and
being baptised and telling the other side I was baptised after a harassment
charge from proposing marriage - absurd, I know, but around the time I
proposed marriage, I had been giving to a hindu guy who was asking me for
help (i was just obeying Jesus) and I pleaded guilty in this absurd situation
where I am taken to court over marriage proposal because it does no harm to
the other party and because I love them. It was agape love which does no harm
to your neighbour and treasures your neighbour and and in court the judge on
3 May 2023 told me I must have been baptised at midnight and that I'm not
remorseful. I have been trying to love literally everybody. Being denied
marriage not necessarily this one incident but generally in my life surely
comes from demons / antichrist spirit.

Jesus in me utterly defeats antichrist spirit and I will go to war against
this thing which has been trying to rob, kill and destroy me, the people I
love and my testimony of being born-again. With the authority that Jesus gave
His disciples I will trample on snakes and scorpions and trample on that
antichrist spirit and rebuke it into utter destruction.

  Daniel 7:25 - He shall speak words against the Most High, and shall wear
  out the saints of the Most High, and shall think to change the times and
  the law; and they shall be given into his hand for a time, times, and half
  a time. (ESV)

But I yelled at the judge in court saying he is a liar because to say I am
unremorseful for harassment via a marriage proposal and sentencing me for
doing good, calling good evil and evil good, while I was following Jesus and
trying to keep His commandments - I found that the judge lacked respect for
God's precepts and for God. And to me this felt like being born-again and
then crucified in court over making a marriage proposal with a good
conscience and sincere faith. I used the opportunity to make testimony of
Jesus. Then received international slander and feeling like I was the victim
of a sin like the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit or something, and continually
being oppressed by demons preventing me from marrying, trying to push me into
LGBT and I felt like the devil tried to steal my blessings and tried to bury
me for making testimony of Jesus. I have felt like I had the Kingdom of God
taken away from me (peace, joy and righteousness in the Holy Spirit) after
being born-again, regenerated, made new - and I pray to God daily for Him to
fix my life. But Jehovah God (Father God and Jesus Christ God's Son and Holy
Spirit) are my number 1 agape love for sure. But I will speak the truth of
what happened here.

Loving God means also obeying His commandments - and His great commandments
and fulfilling the requirement of the Law. Am I to love God with my whole
heart if I take the person I propose to trial and waste years of her life in
court? It's not loving God to do evil against my neighbour.

The blood of Jesus is enough for me to be washed white as snow. Christ is
enough for me. Give me Jesus and a good conscience. But I don't forgive
satan, nor his angels, nor his demons. Nor do I affirm anyone who does not
submit to the righteousness of God.

My God is the God who instituted marriage between man and woman.

  Ecclesiastes 12:13-14 - The end of the matter; all has been heard. Fear God
  and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God will
  bring every deed into judgment, with every secret thing, whether good or
  evil. (ESV)

72.7.2. Humility

Being born-again, I actually had a lot to learn about humility, and service.

Talk
youtube.com: How to be Humble

Quote from Martin Luther King Jr.:

  “Everybody can be great…because anybody can serve. You don't have to have a
  college degree to serve. You don't have to make your subject and verb agree
  to serve. You only need a heart full of grace. A soul generated by love.”

72.7.3. Marriage should not become idolatry

The Hebrew has two words for 'helper'. The word which the greek in John 14
refers to I believe is the Saviour one:

|  מושיע
|  savior, deliverer, helper, saviour

But the Hebrew for helper in Genesis 2:18 is not the 'saviour' but the
assistant!:

|  עוזר
|  assistant, aide, helper, second

  Genesis 2:18 - Then the Lord (H3068 Yhovah) God (H430 'elohiym) said (H559
  'amar), “It is not good (H2896 towb) for the man (H120 'adam) to be alone
  (H905 bad); I will make (H6213 `asah) him a helper (H5828 `ezer) suitable
  (H5048 neged) for him.”

72.8. The spiritual attack I have received in recent times

My spiritual experiences are not all bad, but it has been very bad at times,
and really good at times too. I'm "in the Spirit" now and I am engaged in
spiritual warfare.

It makes sense that I've been receiving spiritual attack because I'm at war
with satan's kingdom after being born of the Spirit:

• youtube.com: Casting Down Strongholds | Derek Prince
• youtube.com: Robert Henderson | 1. Courts of Heaven

I'll be listening to music such as this to help maintain the correct
perspective against lies that come from the enemy through dreams and through
other people:

Radio
https://www.star.net.nz/

Song
youtube.com: Who You Say I Am - Hillsong Worship

Song
youtube.com: Jesus Paid It All - Kim Walker-Smith | Worship Circle Hymns

The more vocal I become about Jesus and the more I align with the Truth and
reject false-religion, and the more I disagree with sin as I repent from it,
the more resistance I appear to be getting.

My sleep has in recent times become highly disrupted as I've been bombarded
with demonic dreams - things I can't even mention - pro-false-religion,
anti-Christianity, pro-sinful things type dreams. Littered amongst those I
sometimes also get Bible verses, or dreams of singing worship songs, etc. I
frequently are tested through other people too.

youtube.com: How to Seek the Holy Spirit @time: 16 min 59 sec
He is the spirit of Truth according to John 14:17, John 15:26, John 16:13,
and He brings to our minds whatever truth we need, little or much. He will
bring it to your mind. All the forces of darkness will seek to confuse you
and obscure the light of truth in that hour. All the proportions of power in
this world will appear to make God look distant, small, ineffective — like
nothing. That is the goal of Satan and sin: to make God look useless and
worthless. The work of the Holy Spirit in that hour — the work of the Spirit
of truth — is to rest upon you with whatever measure of truth you will need
in order to be faithful.

AMEN, John Piper. Yup, this is my experience too. God is faithful though even
when I am unfaithful.

  Romans 8:20-21 - For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly,
  but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will
  be set free from its bondage to decay and obtain the freedom of the glory
  of the children of God. (ESV)

Thanks to John Piper for helping me to maintain perspective on suffering,
even for struggling against sin:

  Romans 8:16-17 - The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we
  are children of God, and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow
  heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be
  glorified with him. (ESV)

youtube.com: Put to Death the Deeds of the Body @time: 55 min 28 sec

The global context of my suffering is that he says, "all creation is awaiting
my coming out into sonship". Until you are manifested, creation's holding
back, and when you are manifested creation will say, "all right, here we
come." And all the futility of the natural world will be removed. All the
horrors of of natural calamities will be taken away. But that's all waiting
until God does his redemptive work on you.

Aven though it may seem strange to you that if a person comes to you with
suffering that you'd want to help them get into a global context, maybe do it
at a better time. Like right now we're doing it so that when you go home and
find some horrible thing has happened, you will be able not just to deal with
it in some little microcosm of your life and how God works everything
together for your good, but that it's part of something absolutely huge.

Read
desiringgod.org: How to Seek the Holy Spirit | Desiring God

  John 14:17 - even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive,
  because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with
  you and will be in you. (ESV)

  John 15:26 - But when the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the
  Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear
  witness about me. (ESV)

  John 16:13 - When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the
  truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he
  will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. (ESV)

Anyway, I see this stuff in the spirit very easily (it's just like having
eyes I didn't have before) after being born of the Spirit, and the way to
fight against the evil is with the Word of God:

  Matthew 4:9-11 - And he said to him, All these I will give you, if you will
  fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan! For it is
  written, You shall worship the Lord your God and him only shall you serve.
  Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to
  him. (ESV)

The Word of God is a light to our path:

  Psalms 119:105 - Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
  (ESV)

I think what this verse says is that putting a stop to sin 'closes doors'
which the enemy uses to attack:

  I John 5:18 - We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep
  on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does
  not touch him. (ESV)

  Psalms 66:18 - If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not
  have listened. (ESV)

I'm fighting hard against evil spirits to make no provision for the flesh:

  Romans 13:12-14 - The night is far gone; the day is at hand. So then let us
  cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us walk
  properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual
  immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy. But put on the
  Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its
  desires. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:5-10 - but they will give account to him who is ready to judge
  the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached even to
  those who are dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are,
  they might live in the spirit the way God does. The end of all things is at
  hand; therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your
  prayers. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a
  multitude of sins. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. As
  each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as good stewards of
  God's varied grace: (ESV)

We must live in the spirit the way God does, not for human passions, but for
the will of God:

  I Peter 4:1-6 - Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm
  yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the
  flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the
  flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God. The time that
  is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in
  sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless
  idolatry. With respect to this they are surprised when you do not join them
  in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you; but they will give
  account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is
  why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged
  in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God
  does. (ESV)

Research:

• youtube.com: How Demons Gain Entry Into A Person | Derek Prince

72.9. The very reason I found myself in court is for coming to the light, and for
exposing darkness, even that of my own fault, but that meant doing the right
thing even though it would give me a conviction

  John 3:21 - But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it
  may be clearly seen that his deeds have been carried out in God. (ESV)

Jehovah God as my witness.

72.10. I'm definitely leaving this stuff in God's court

At the end of the day I am resting on the righteousness that comes through
faith in Jesus - Amen to that. It's by faith in Jesus' name that we are
forgiven.

I've been going through a lot of trial and tribulation over the last 2 years:

  I Peter 1:6-9 - In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if
  necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested
  genuineness of your faith—more precious than gold that perishes though it
  is tested by fire—may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at
  the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love
  (G25. agapaó) him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and
  rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the
  outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. (ESV)

By the Holy Spirit we are supposed to put to death the deeds of the body:

  Romans 8:13 - For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if
  by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. (ESV)

But if there is a spirit-spouse manifesting spiritually and messing with me
physically and a bunch of other demonic attacks and it doesn't go away when I
rebuke it in Jesus' name, and it resists when I use Scriptures, and the
attack lasts for 600 days almost every day, then I feel like the challenge of
fighting back is just too difficult. At least I do not feel as guilty about
it. But I think I should continue to true to fight against it.

I sometimes worry that some of the spiritual attack experiences I've had are
so extreme that my mistakes involving them can't be forgiven but God knows my
heart and how I think the spiritual attack situations I've been in are so
extreme and so excessive and so relentless that they ordeal is just plain
unfair - a stich-up:

  Matthew 12:31-32 - Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be
  forgiven people, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
  And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but
  whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this
  age or in the age to come. (ESV)

  Luke 12:10 - And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be
  forgiven, but the one who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be
  forgiven. (ESV)

  I John 3:20 - for whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our
  heart, and he knows everything. (ESV)

  Yeah, this morning <2024-06-28 Fri> I had a night swamped with such evil
  dreams. God knows why. So evil that I cannot even mention them. This is the
  day after writing about how Christians should be have like children of
  Father God, that is Jehovah:

  Psalms 91:5-8 - You will not fear the terror of the night, nor the arrow
  that flies by day, nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness, nor the
  destruction that wastes at noonday. A thousand may fall at your side, ten
  thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you. You will only
  look with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked. (ESV)

  The Golden Rule, I think explains that we should behave like a child of
  Father God who is by nature Good and gives good gifts to His children, and
  gifts that are truly good, far exceeding any amount of favour we might show
  our own children. As we behave like a child of Father God, believing the
  gospel of Jesus, and loving with Christ's love, we can really say our
  Father is God, as a child takes after their parents, and a child of Father
  God behaves like Jesus and follows Jesus. We try to follow Jesus, and
  imitate Christ's pattern, as Christ is the Son of God.

Yeah, I am at my limits to what I can endure.

This has been going on every day for nearly 2 years.

Any Christians out there pray for me please that God will stop allowing the
evil spirits to attack me.

  Psalms 88:18 - You have caused my beloved and my friend to shun me; my
  companions have become darkness. (ESV)

  Psalms 10:1 - Why, O LORD, do you stand afar off? Why do you hide yourself
  in times of trouble? (ESV)

  Psalms 10:12 - Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up your hand; forget not the
  afflicted. (ESV)

Also, to "be holy as He is holy" when people deny relationships and marriage,
and just heap on heavy burdens, asking even more of me, without lifting a
finger to help, and then simultaneously I'm attacked with a spirit spouse at
night, for example, and I'm supposed to just ignore it - well it feels like
an impossibility to remain clean.

So a complaint I have to Almighty God Jehovah is that remaining holy in all
my conduct during the trial I have faced has felt impossibly difficult, and
very graceless, and I've felt "under the pump", in constant spiritual
warfare, and I have been constantly denied work and a marriage partner!

  Colossians 2:18-21 - Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and
  worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without
  reason by his sensuous mind, and not holding fast to the Head, from whom
  the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and
  ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God. If with Christ you died to
  the elemental spirits of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the
  world, do you submit to regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not
  touch (ESV)

Paul says:

• He has the right to eat and drink
• He has the right to take along a believing wife, just like other
believers
• It seems just even by God's law that as working as an apostle he may reap
material things from the ones he is serving
• If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we
reap material things from you
• He has the right to refrain from working for a living
• Because he is working for God
• Who serves as a soldier at his own expense?
• Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit?
• Or who tends a flock without getting some of the milk?
• Even God's law says the same:
• Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the Law say the
same? For it is written in the Law of Moses, You shall not muzzle an
ox when it treads out the grain. Is it for oxen that God is
concerned? Does he not speak entirely for our sake? It was written
for our sake, because the plowman should plow in hope and the
thresher thresh in hope of sharing in the crop.

  I Corinthians 9:3-14 - This is my defense to those who would examine me. Do
  we not have the right to eat and drink? Do we not have the right to take
  along a believing wife, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the
  Lord and Cephas? Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain
  from working for a living? Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who
  plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit? Or who tends a flock
  without getting some of the milk? Do I say these things on human authority?
  Does not the Law say the same? For it is written in the Law of Moses, You
  shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain. Is it for oxen that
  God is concerned? Does he not speak entirely for our sake? It was written
  for our sake, because the plowman should plow in hope and the thresher
  thresh in hope of sharing in the crop. If we have sown spiritual things
  among you, is it too much if we reap material things from you? If others
  share this rightful claim on you, do not we even more? Nevertheless, we
  have not made use of this right, but we endure anything rather than put an
  obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ. Do you not know that those who
  are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple, and
  those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial offerings? In the
  same way, the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get
  their living by the gospel. (ESV)

Paul doesn't claim his full rights in the gospel (even rights shown by God's
precepts in God's law) that He might receive reward from God for going beyond
the call of His duty:

  I Corinthians 9:12,9:15-18 - If others share this rightful claim on you, do
  not we even more? Nevertheless, we have not made use of this right, but we
  endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of
  Christ. But I have made no use of any of these rights, nor am I writing
  these things to secure any such provision. For I would rather die than have
  anyone deprive me of my ground for boasting. For if I preach the gospel,
  that gives me no ground for boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to
  me if I do not preach the gospel! For if I do this of my own will, I have a
  reward, but not of my own will, I am still entrusted with a stewardship.
  What then is my reward? That in my preaching I may present the gospel free
  of charge, so as not to make full use of my right in the gospel. (ESV)

We must keep and accept the precepts of God over the precepts of men:

  Mark 7:6-9 - And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you
  hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but
  their heart is far from me; in vain do they worship me, teaching as
  doctrines the commandments of men. You leave the commandment of God and
  hold to the tradition of men. And he said to them, You have a fine way of
  rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition!
  (ESV)

This passage is condemning submitting to worldly / human precepts and
imploring us to submit to God's precepts. It's not condemning God's precepts
but imploring us to put to death what is against God's precepts:

  Colossians 2:20-23,3:1-6 - If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits
  of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit
  to regulations— Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch (referring to
  things that all perish as they are used)—according to human precepts and
  teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made
  religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value
  in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. If then you have been raised with
  Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the
  right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things
  that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ
  in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear
  with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual
  immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is
  idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. (ESV)

I've kept a good conscience with God, and with men, being obedient to Jesus
over the last 2 years:

  I Timothy 1:18-20 - This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in
  accordance with the prophecies previously made about you, that by them you
  may wage the good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience. By
  rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith, among whom are
  Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may
  learn not to blaspheme. (ESV)

I'm definitely taking this stuff to God's court and asking for grace to be
sanctified/delivered.

  James 4:6 - But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the
  proud, but gives grace to the humble. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 9:8 - And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so
  that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in
  every good work. (ESV)

I have felt spiritually damaged/injured by what I've had to endure regarding
a "spirit spouse / defilement" - I simply don't understand why that thing has
been allowed to touch me for 1.5 years and push lewd dreams into my head.
This daily bombardment of demonic dreams, and visions is very demoralizing
but especially when I succumb to "defilement" often because of anxiety, and
when I don't keep perspective (i.e. when I fail to praise God through trial).
I believe that I will be totally healed.

youtube.com: Called to Be Saints | Charles Spurgeon | Devotional | Morning &
Evening: Daily Readings
All are "saints" whom God has called by His grace and sanctified by His
Spirit; but we are apt to look upon the apostles in the New Testament as
extraordinary beings, scarcely subject to the same weaknesses and temptations
as ourselves. Yet in so doing, we are forgetful of this truth that the nearer
a man lives to God the more intensely he has to mourn over his own evil
heart. the more also does the evil of the flesh provoke and harass him day by
day.

With regards to the spirit spouse, it makes me feel very gross and it mas in
the past made me sometimes feel Psalm 22:1 forsaken by God - no joke. But,
also, fascinatingly, after making such complaints to God in my private
praying, I have like a reflex action been encouraged through other people
that Jesus is the Good Shepherd and will not leave or forsake me.

  Hebrews 13:5 - Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with
  what you have, for he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you.
  (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 31:8 - It is the LORD who goes before you. He will be with you;
  he will not leave you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed. (ESV)

youtube.com: Petra: No Doubt

There are times when you fell like you can't go on

There are times when you fell like giving in

And there are times when you feel like you can't try anymore

There are times of trouble in believing

This test of your faith will last

As long as it takes to pass

Till you have no more doubt you'll endure

And you faith will emerge true and pure

  Romans 8:28 - And we know that for those who love God all things work
  together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. (ESV)

God does give me encouragements from time to time though, and my confidence
in God is not failing:

  Hebrews 13:5 - Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with
  what you have, for he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you.
  (ESV)

But I am still required to live by faith, and so much of what I hope for is
unseen and I don't have total assurance, but I have a conviction about it:

  Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
  conviction of things not seen. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 13:12 - For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to
  face. Now I know in part; then I shall know fully, even as I have been
  fully known. (ESV)

I have literally no idea why Father God waited such a long time in the first
place to draw me to Jesus:

  Isaiah 55:8-9 - For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your
  ways my ways, declares the LORD. For as the heavens are higher than the
  earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your
  thoughts. (ESV)

God draws us to Jesus who brings us to God:

  John 6:44 - No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him.
  And I will raise him up on the last day. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 5:18-19 - All this is from God, who through Christ
  reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation; that
  is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their
  trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of
  reconciliation. (ESV)

I want to hear from God clearly, but I feel like being delivered from being
attacked by demons would be really good.

  Psalms 22:1 - My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far
  from saving me, from the words of my groaning? (ESV)

  Psalms 6:1-4 - O LORD, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in
  your wrath. To the choirmaster: with stringed instruments; according to The
  Sheminith. A Psalm of David. Be gracious to me, O LORD, for I am
  languishing; heal me, O LORD, for my bones are troubled. My soul also is
  greatly troubled. But you, O LORD—how long? Turn, O LORD, deliver my life;
  save me for the sake of your steadfast love. (ESV)

I was in that happy place shortly after being born-again even though my
theology wasn't great, but then God has put me through this trial.

  I Timothy 6:12 - Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the
  eternal life to which you were called and about which you made the good
  confession in the presence of many witnesses. (ESV)

  Acts 14:22 - strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to
  continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must
  enter the kingdom of God. (ESV)

I claim to be a fallibly obedient child of God - trusting in Jesus and
responsive to the love of God, and I claim to love and follow the law of God
in my mind, and I actually try very hard to not be conformed to sinful lusts
- and I though I was quite successful in doing in advance of my trial, but
it's just so difficult to live properly now because of such intense
persecution in this world - physical and spiritual, inside and outside of
church, so I'm complaining to God and saying it has been far too difficult:

  Psalms 142:2 - I pour out my complaint before him; I tell my trouble before
  him. (ESV)

I will still try aim to put that stuff to death and to be holy in all my
conduct:

  I Peter 1:14-19 - As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions
  of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be
  holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am
  holy. And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to
  each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your
  exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from
  your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but
  with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or
  spot. (ESV)

Sigh….

On the bright side, last week I did get a picture of John Piper on YouTube
saying "Jesus has given you clothes." That means that when I turn up in
heaven I'll have 'clothes' so I can enter - the imputed righteousness of
Christ.

But being brought into communion with God by the blood of Jesus we must not
resist sanctification. We must humble ourselves in obedience to Christ Jesus.

  Acts 10:34-35: So Peter opened his mouth and said: Truly I understand that
  God shows no partiality, but in every nation anyone who fears him and does
  what is right is acceptable to him.

  Galatians 2:6 - And from those who seemed to be influential (what they were
  makes no difference to me; God shows no partiality)—those, I say, who
  seemed influential added nothing to me. (ESV)

  Matthew 22:11-13 - But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw
  there a man who had no wedding garment. And he said to him, Friend, how did
  you get in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then the
  king said to the attendants, Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the
  outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
  (ESV)

youtube.com: The Hidden Snare of Bitterness @time: 4 min 6 sec
So when Paul says, "Put it on, this new nature, he means, 'Act it out'." If
you have been created anew after the likeness of God clothe yourselves with
godly garments. Now what is clothing? Clothing is what people see. When you
put clothing around yourself you give something for people to look at that's
presentable. So when Paul says "clothe yourselves, put on your new nature,"
he means, "let that inner reality that God has created work itself out in
visible actions and behaviors and attitudes. Become what you are within." If
the hidden spring has been purified let the visible streams run clean. But of
course if the spring is purified the streams will run clean. If the tree is
good the fruit will be good. Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth does
speak. … These choices are the obedience that confirm your calling and
election and make it sure. …

youtube.com: Keep Rejoicing

warning
If we neglect to understand that the Christian life as it is lived out is a
miracle, then all our pursuit of morality or holiness will become striving in
our own strength… we will chalk it up to our merit…

Also, I recall that some time in 2022 I had a dream where someone asked me,
"How did you get in here?" And I responded pointing to 2 blog articles I had
written (2 April 2022 and 3 May 2022 and indicating that it was through being
born-again, through baptism, the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ.

  Revelation of John 3:4 - Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people
  who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white,
  for they are worthy. (ESV)

But I have to keep seeking to be sanctified because Jesus is coming for me at
some point. So I want to be ready for when that happens by being holy and
loving:

  I John 4:17 - By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have
  confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this
  world. (ESV)

Both our faith and our love should be increasing:

  II Thessalonians 1:3 - We ought always to give thanks to God for you,
  brothers, as is right, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the
  love of every one of you for one another is increasing. (ESV)

Doing the will of God is still extremely important for inheriting the kingdom
of God. The will of God includes exercising personal righteousness as a fruit
of sanctification (holiness, loving your neighbour as yourself, and doing
good):

  I Corinthians 6:9-10 - Do you not know that the unrighteous will not
  inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually
  immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
  nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers
  will inherit the kingdom of God. (ESV)

  Hebrews 12:11 - For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than
  pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those
  who have been trained by it. (ESV)

Doing the will of God is important for inheriting the kingdom of God:

  Matthew 25:23 - His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful
  servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much.
  Enter into the joy of your master. (ESV)

We do need a lot of faith (faith, faithfulness, obedience) in God to inherit
the Kingdom of God:

  James 2:5 - Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are
  poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he
  has promised to those who love (25. agapaó) him? (ESV)

  Romans 6:22-23- But now that you have been set free from sin and have
  become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its
  end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God
  is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (ESV)

  Acts 26:18 - to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to
  light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness
  of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. (ESV)

Quote from CH Spurgeon
"Peace is joy resting, and joy is peace dancing"

Sigh…. For the record, as of <2024-06-13 Thu>, it still feels as though I'm
being hit by witchcraft.

The spirit spouse stuff has continued. It's only been a problem since the end
of 2022, and I think its objective is to make me feel disqualified, but I
know it's just demons/witchcraft/defilement and I'm resisting it to my best
ability, including in my thoughts (sometimes I have succumbed).

It's interesting with the spirit spouse stuff, as it affects me it is
involuntary (like rape in my sleep), and it tries to make it so that sex is
voluntary (think myself to sex):

• biblehub.com: Strong's Greek: 1596. ???????? {hekousios} – voluntarily

We should be cleansing ourselves of every defilement of body, and spirit with
faith, the Word of God and the Spirit of God:

  II Corinthians 7:1 - Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse
  ourselves from every defilement of body (4561. sarx) and spirit (4151.
  pneuma), bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God. (ESV)

God cleanses our hearts as we practice our faith in Him:

  Acts 15:9 - and he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed
  their hearts by faith. (ESV)

We walk in the light (God's light, truth) in trust, faith, obedience:

  I Peter 1:22 - Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth
  for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
  (ESV)

Asides from that, I'll continue endeavouring to abide by Jesus' commandments,
and I have a good conscience.

I'm also experiencing a lot of testing, and positive interactions, and some
encouragements from God, and I'm feeling like studying the Gospel of Jesus
using the Bible is changing my life for the better, and I feel really
confident having a much better perspective.

  Galatians 5:19-21 - Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual
  immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife,
  jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy,
  drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you
  before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
  (ESV)

Sermon
youtube.com: Assurance for Battle

I know my family in Christ also experience the same kind of suffering /
spiritual warfare:

  I Peter 5:9 - Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds
  of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the
  world. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:16-17 - Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be
  ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment
  to begin at the household of God; and if it begins with us, what will be
  the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? (ESV)

  Job 1:8-12 - And the LORD said to Satan, Have you considered my servant
  Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man,
  who fears God and turns away from evil? Then Satan answered the LORD and
  said, Does Job fear God for no reason? Have you not put a hedge around him
  and his house and all that he has, on every side? You have blessed the work
  of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. But stretch
  out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will curse you to your
  face. And the LORD said to Satan, Behold, all that he has is in your hand.
  Only against him do not stretch out your hand. So Satan went out from the
  presence of the LORD. (ESV)

  Psalms 57:1 - Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me, for in you my
  soul takes refuge; in the shadow of your wings I will take refuge, till the
  storms of destruction pass by. (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Elvis Presley - Help me {With Lyrics}

Well this morning <2024-06-23 Sun> I dreamed of rebuking evil spirits in
Jesus' name and I remember even willing in my heart as I was sleeping to
rebuke them in Jehovah's name too, and I believe it was the Holy Spirit
fighting for me as I was sleeping, and woke up after that. But I feel so
encouraged when the Holy Spirit fights for me in my sleep. Also, after waking
up I felt noticeably freed from the spirit spouse stuff - very encouraging. I
was woken up by evil spirits again after that a couple more times this
morning from memory, but I just put on some praise and worship music.

It's now <2024-06-26 Wed> and a couple of days ago I heard a voice which
asked, "What do you think of the Golden Rule." That prompted me to do a
little study on the Golden Rule and the Royal Law.

When it comes to 'works' and 'law-keeping', I believe disciples of Jesus
should know they have been forgiven by grace through faith and they should
also practice their righteousness and a person who has accepted forgiveness
for their sin by the atonement made in Jesus' blood should certainly
endeavour after that to fulfill practically the Royal Law, that is to love
one's neighbour as themself, even owing that to other people:

  Romans 13:8 - Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one
  who loves another has fulfilled the law. (ESV)

But I continue walking in the light, in trusting obedience to Jesus, and
Jesus' blood continues to cleanse me from all sin:

  I John 1:7-9 - But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
  fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
  from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth
  is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
  our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. (ESV)

It is clear that following Jesus helps us to not sin, which means that the
destructiveness of sin for us is still a reality if we are not following
Jesus. We get on top of it by following Jesus and walking by His Spirit:

  Galatians 5:14-16 - For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: You shall
  love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another,
  watch out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the
  Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. (ESV)

  Romans 8:14 - For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.
  (ESV)

A person who is mature in Christ has faith in Christ, follows the teachings
of Christ and the pattern of His life, and is spiritually minded, and thinks
with Christ's wisdom, not worldly wisdom, and lives for the will of God:

  Colossians 1:28 - Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone
  with all wisdom, that we may present everyone mature in Christ. (ESV)

The Golden Rule, I think explains that we should behave like a child of
Father God who is by nature Good and gives good gifts to His children, and
gifts that are truly good, far exceeding any amount of favour we might show
our own children. As we behave like a child of Father God, believing the
gospel of Jesus, and loving with Christ's love, we can really say our Father
is God, as a child takes after their parents, and a child of Father God
behaves like Jesus and follows Jesus. We try to follow Jesus, and imitate
Christ's pattern, as Christ is the Son of God.

We should love others, as we would want to be loved by others. God gives
common grace to all people, even the evil. We should love in this way, as our
Father in Heaven:

  Matthew 5:45 - so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For
  he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the
  just and on the unjust. (ESV)

I do not think the Golden Rule is saying that "God is humanity." Neither do I
think the Golden Rule is saying that God treats us precisely how we treat
others.

I think the Golden Rule is really telling us to be loving, and love our
enemies, as we would want to be loved by our enemies - love people the way
Father God loves us:

  Matthew 7:9-12 - Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will
  give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent? If you
  then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much
  more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask
  him! So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for
  this is the Law and the Prophets. (ESV)

We should be imitators of God's love:

  Psalms 103:8 - The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and
  abounding in steadfast love. (ESV)

  Ephesians 5:1-2 - Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And
  walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant
  offering and sacrifice to God. (ESV)

  I John 4:7 - Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and
  whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. (ESV)

Love your enemies as well as your friends. Be like Your Heavenly Father. Be
perfect. Love (25. agapaó) your enemies means "treasuring your enemies" and
looks like not repaying evil for evil. It sometimes looks like refusing to do
evil and instead doing good to those who do you harm, taking the initiative
in overcoming evil with good:

  Matthew 5:43-48 - You have heard that it was said, You shall love your
  neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray
  for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is
  in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends
  rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you,
  what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if
  you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not
  even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect, as your
  heavenly Father is perfect. (ESV)

  Proverbs 25:21-22 - If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if
  he is thirsty, give him water to drink, for you will heap burning coals on
  his head, and the LORD will reward you. (ESV)

I'm still getting slammed with these antichrist dreams at night up till today
<2024-07-13 Sat>, but I'm going to stick with what Scripture says. These
dreams and visions are very false with regards to what the Holy Bible says. I
wont trust every spirit but only those which confess Jesus biblically (i.e.
as having come from God, walked the earth in the flesh, died and raised from
the dead and ascended to Father God and reigns on High). God has spoken quite
a lot already through the Scripture so I'm going to be taught and corrected
by the Word of God, and be sanctified by the Truth.

I think I'll keep these notes here documenting a tiny view of spiritual
attack I have endured, until I am delivered and on the other side of it.

72.11. In my helpless state I cried out to God for help, and He made me
born-again of the spirit

I was spiritually bankrupt and I knew I needed God's help.

  Jeremiah 29:13-14 - You will seek me and find me. When you seek me with all
  your heart, I will be found by you, declares the LORD, and I will restore
  your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where
  I have driven you, declares the LORD, and I will bring you back to the
  place from which I sent you into exile. (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:4-5 - But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love
  with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us
  alive together with Christ—by grace you have been saved— (ESV)

Thanks to Jesus' endurance, His spirit empowers us to live as He lived, and
to be conformed to His image. God's strength does not guarantee that we will
not suffer as a result of following Jesus. But God gives us the power at the
time we need it to endure the suffering:

  Hebrews 12:1-3 - Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of
  witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so
  closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
  looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy
  that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is
  seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured
  from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary
  or fainthearted. (ESV)

72.11.1. I was spiritually blind

  I Corinthians 2:14 - The natural person does not accept the things of the
  Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand
  them because they are spiritually discerned. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 4:3 - And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled only to
  those who are perishing. (ESV)

72.11.2. Father God intervenes and draws us to Jesus

  II Corinthians 4:6 - For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness,
  has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of
  God in the face of Jesus Christ. (ESV)

  John 6:44 - No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him.
  And I will raise him up on the last day. (ESV)

72.11.3. My spiritual senses were enabled / eyes were opened

I was born-again of the Spirit.

  John 3:3 - Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is
  born again he cannot see the kingdom of God. (ESV)

And I began learning to walk in Jesus' commandments, and repenting from sin.
There was an incredible amount of resistance from other people to following
Jesus' commandments.

  Ephesians 4:32 - Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one
  another, as God in Christ forgave you. (ESV)

Likewise, there was also a lot of resistance, spiritually, to repenting from
sin.

youtube.com: The Good Shepard | His sheep | Bishop Mar Mari Emmanuel @time: 7
min 46 sec

72.11.4. I had to humble myself and repent

I had to acknowledge certain beliefs and behaviour in my life was not what
God's will was for me, and turn away from the bad beliefs and behaviour, and
I want to continue learning Christ:

  Ephesians 4:20-21 - But that is not the way you learned Christ!— assuming
  that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in
  Jesus, (ESV)

Trust and obey:

  II Timothy 3:12-17 - Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ
  Jesus will be persecuted, while evil people and impostors will go on from
  bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. But as for you, continue in
  what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you
  learned it and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred
  writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in
  Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for
  teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,
  that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work. (ESV)

72.11.5. We're persecuted for following Jesus. We're persecuted for repentance

  John 7:7 - The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify
  about it that its works are evil. (ESV)

  Galatians 4:29 - But just as at that time he who was born according to the
  flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is
  now. (ESV)

Christian persecution is not for suffering as an evildoer:

  I Peter 4:15 - But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an
  evildoer or as a meddler. (ESV)

Being persecuted for righteousness-sake, for faithful obedience to Jesus is
evidence of entering the Kingdom of God:

  II Thessalonians 1:4-5 - Therefore we ourselves boast about you in the
  churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions
  and in the afflictions that you are enduring. This is evidence of the
  righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom
  of God, for which you are also suffering— (ESV)

We're supposed to do good works of faith by Jesus' power so that Jesus' name
is glorified - and those works done in Jesus' power are entirely given by
grace to us:

  II Thessalonians 1:11-12 - To this end we always pray for you, that our God
  may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good
  and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus
  may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God
  and the Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

72.11.6. Believers will marvel. The saints will do good works which glorify
Jesus, all done in God's grace

I am increasingly of the opinion that there is a subtle difference between
simply 'believer' and 'saint' who is also a believer. Believers are forgiven
through Jesus' name. Saints both believe and keep God's commandments,
carrying their cross. Saints are disciples of Jesus who have been sanctified
by the Truth. Believing disciples of Jesus may become saints:

  II Thessalonians 1:9-12 - They will suffer the punishment of eternal
  destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his
  might, when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints, and to be
  marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was
  believed. To this end we always pray for you, that our God may make you
  worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work
  of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified
  in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord
  Jesus Christ. (ESV)

73. Jesus Christ is fully God and fully human

Jesus is the Word of God made flesh. Jesus' words are Spirit and Life. We
must 'eat' Jesus' words, believe Him, believe in Him, keep His words:

  John 6:58-63 - This is the bread that came down from heaven, not as the
  fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. Jesus
  said these things in the synagogue, as he taught at Capernaum. When many of
  his disciples heard it, they said, This is a hard saying; who can listen to
  it? But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about
  this, said to them, Do you take offense at this? Then what if you were to
  see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who
  gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The words that I have spoken to you
  are spirit and life. (ESV)

  John 1:1 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. (ESV)

Jesus Christ is the Word of God who became flesh - this is what I believe -
not just God in the flesh but God who became flesh, then He was put to death
on a tree (a cross) for our trespasses and Father God raised Him from the
dead for our justification:

  John 1:14 - And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen
  his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and
  truth. (ESV)

  Romans 4:20-25 - No distrust (apistia) made him waver concerning the
  promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,
  fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why
  his faith was counted to him as righteousness. But the words it was counted
  to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be
  counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord,
  who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.
  (ESV)

AMEN!!

I trust the ESV and NASB translations that say the word became flesh.

Also, I've been born of God, so I have Christ in me:

  John 1:12-13 - But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he
  gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor
  of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God. (ESV)

I have the Spirit of God in me:

  Romans 8:9 - You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in
  fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit
  of Christ does not belong to him. (ESV)

We are to be conformed into Christ's image:

  Romans 8:29 - For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be
  conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn
  among many brothers. (ESV)

74. Praising and thanking God in Heaven

Sermon
youtube.com: Christ Has Purchased Global Praise

We should start now.

  Revelation 7:9-12 - After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that
  no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and
  languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white
  robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice,
  Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb! And
  all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and
  the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne
  and worshiped God, saying, Amen! Blessing and glory and wisdom and
  thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever!
  Amen. (ESV)

74.1. We should praise God even when it's tough times

  Psalms 22:1-3 - My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so
  far from saving me, from the words of my groaning? To the choirmaster:
  according to The Doe of the Dawn. A Psalm of David. O my God, I cry by day,
  but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. Yet you are holy,
  enthroned (3427. yashab. to sit, remain, dwell) on the praises of Israel.
  (ESV)

Praise
youtube.com: Prophetic / Worship / Jerusalem / ISRAEL / Soaking Worship Music
/ {Magi G feat. Elihana Elia} /

  Proverbs 30:4 - Who has ascended to heaven and come down? Who has gathered
  the wind in his fists? Who has wrapped up the waters in a garment? Who has
  established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and what is his
  son's name? Surely you know! (ESV)

75. I don't want to think too hard about theology, but it is important - writing
this was worthwhile in arriving at a sound understanding

By God's grace I've been set free from sin, and brought into a relationship
with God, and have hope for the future now.

  Ephesians 2:12-13 - remember that you were at that time separated from
  Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the
  covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now
  in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the
  blood of Christ. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 29:29 - The secret things belong to the LORD our God, but the
  things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we
  may do all the words of this law. (ESV)

  Proverbs 3:5-6 - Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not lean on
  your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make
  straight your paths. (ESV)

  Jeremiah 29:11 - For I know the plans I have for you, declares the LORD,
  plans for wholeness and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope.
  (ESV)

  Ephesians 2:10 - For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for
  good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
  (ESV)

  Matthew 5:16 - In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that
  they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in
  heaven. (ESV)

76. The close of the age

Sermon
youtube.com: His Voice in Yours: How Christ Wins the World

  Revelation of John 14:7 - And he said with a loud voice, Fear God and give
  him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who
  made heaven and earth, the sea and the springs of water. (ESV)

  Matthew 13:45-52 - Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in
  search of fine pearls, who, on finding one pearl of great value, went and
  sold all that he had and bought it. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a
  net that was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind. When it
  was full, men drew it ashore and sat down and sorted the good into
  containers but threw away the bad. So it will be at the close of the age.
  The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous and throw
  them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and
  gnashing of teeth. Have you understood all these things? They said to him,
  Yes. And he said to them, Therefore every scribe who has been trained for
  the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house, who brings out of his
  treasure what is new and what is old.

It's important to get to know God, and important to obey the gospel of the
Lord Jesus, or face the punishment:

  II Thessalonians 1:5-8 - This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God,
  that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are
  also suffering— since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction
  those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well
  as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty
  angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God
  and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. (ESV)

God is not saving Lucifer/Satan/the devil or his demons/devils. Neither is
God saving his angels. They're all going to Hell, the Lake of Fire, forever.
… Along with those who reject God and do not repent. Amen to that:

  Revelation of John 20:7-10 - And when the thousand years are ended, Satan
  will be released from his prison and will come out to deceive the nations
  that are at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them
  for battle; their number is like the sand of the sea. And they marched up
  over the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and
  the beloved city, but fire came down from heaven and consumed them, and the
  devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur
  where the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day
  and night forever and ever. (ESV)

  Revelation 22:12-17, 20-21 - Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my
  recompense with me, to repay everyone for what he has done. I am the Alpha
  and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. Blessed
  are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree
  of life and that they may enter the city by the gates. Outside are the dogs
  and sorcerers and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and
  everyone who loves and practices falsehood. I, Jesus, have sent my angel to
  testify to you about these things for the churches. I am the root and the
  descendant of David, the bright morning star. The Spirit and the Bride say,
  Come. And let the one who hears say, Come. And let the one who is thirsty
  come; let the one who desires take the water of life without price. He who
  testifies to these things says, Surely I am coming soon. Amen. Come, Lord
  Jesus! The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. Amen. (ESV)

I'm a total believer in the rapture. In fact, I believe that a person can be
raptured by faith. I really wouldn't mind being raptured today <2024-07-18
Thu>. The world lost its luster for me, and that is a good thing actually:

  Hebrews 11:5 - By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death,
  and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he
  was commended as having pleased God. (ESV)

Andrae Crouch - Take Me Back
Take me back, dear Lord, where I first believed. I must confess, Lord, I've
been blessed, But yet, my soul's not satisfied. Renew my faith, restore my
joy, Lord.

Jesus is coming a second time to save those who are eagerly waiting for Him.
AMEN!!:

  Hebrews 9:27-28 - And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and
  after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the
  sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save
  those who are eagerly waiting for him. (ESV)

And Jesus' enemies will be made a footstool for His feet:

  Hebrews 10:10-13 - And by that will we have been sanctified through the
  offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest stands
  daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can
  never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single
  sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that
  time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. (ESV)

youtube.com: The Book Of Revelation | Satan Being Chained | Bishop Mari
@time: 8 min 25 sec
The Lord's first coming was nothing but mercy. He came to heal, he came to
deliver, he came to save, he came to redeem - all mercy. But in his second
coming, the third name will apply: "King of Kings and Lord of Lords". And who
will acknowledge this name? And who will bow before this Holy and mighty
name? The entire world of the church. Everyone who rejects the Lord now,
every everyone who denies the Lord now, everyone who opposes the Lord now,
everyone who offends the Lord now will bow whether they like it or not on his
second return, because he is the King of all Kings and he is the Lord of all
Lords.

76.1. Living and the dead

There are those who are not really alive but are like the walking dead.

  I Peter 4:4-5 - With respect to this they are surprised when you do not
  join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you; but they
  will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
  (ESV)

  Romans 8:10-13 - But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because
  of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. If the Spirit of him
  who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus
  from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit
  who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to
  live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh you
  will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you
  will live. (ESV)

Could we say that a person who believes in / trusts in Jesus may die? Yes, we
can say that, but though they may die, yet they will live. So if believers
die, they then they live:

  John 11:25-27 - Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life.
  Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who
  lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to
  him, Yes, Lord; I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is
  coming into the world. (ESV)

OK, so if a believer/truster in Jesus dies then they will live.

And if a person lives and they trust/believe in Jesus, they will never die:

  Romans 6:8-11 - Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will
  also live with him. We know that Christ being raised from the dead will
  never die again; death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he
  died he died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God.
  So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ
  Jesus. (ESV)

So we are born-again, and continue in faith in Jesus.

I think Jesus was suggesting to his disciple that to not follow Him (Jesus)
is to live in a futile way. The path of life, however, involves following
Him, and living for Him and His gospel, and that person will live:

  Matthew 8:21-23 - Another of the disciples said to him, Lord, let me first
  go and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Follow me, and leave the dead
  to bury their own dead. And when he got into the boat, his disciples
  followed him. (ESV)

  Luke 9:59-62 - To another he said, Follow me. But he said, Lord, let me
  first go and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Leave the dead to bury
  their own dead. But as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God. Yet
  another said, I will follow you, Lord, but let me first say farewell to
  those at my home. Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand to the plow
  and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. (ESV)

Those who follow Jesus will have the light of life:

  John 8:12 - Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world.
  Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of
  life. (ESV)

It is those people who will to live (though they die, they will live). Then
they are truly alive - joined with Him -having died with Jesus now alive with
Him. The one who is alive from the dead who continues to trust in Him will
never die.

76.2. Confidence for the day of judgement

We have confidence as we are practicing righteousness and love the brothers:

  I John 3:10-17 - By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who
  are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is
  not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. For this is the
  message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one
  another. We should not be like Cain, who was of the evil one and murdered
  his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own deeds were evil and
  his brother's righteous. Do not be surprised, brothers, that the world
  hates you. We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we
  love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death. Everyone who
  hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal
  life abiding in him. By this we know love, that he laid down his life for
  us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. But if anyone has
  the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart
  against him, how does God's love abide in him? (ESV)

  Psalms 119:160 - The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your
  righteous rules endures forever. (ESV)

We believe God and love as He commanded. We trust God. We trust Jesus. We may
have our faults but our Master is our Lord Jesus and our justification is His
blood as we are found in Him, as doers of His commandments - trusters,
believers, doers, imitators of Him:

  I John 4:1-21 - Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits
  to see whether they are from God, for many false prophets have gone out
  into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that
  confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, and every
  spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of
  the antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already.
  Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for he who is in
  you is greater than he who is in the world. They are from the world;
  therefore they speak from the world, and the world listens to them. We are
  from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is not from God does not
  listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error.
  Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves
  has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know
  God, because God is love. In this the love of God was made manifest among
  us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live
  through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved
  us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so
  loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God; if
  we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. By
  this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of
  his Spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son
  to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of
  God, God abides in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to
  believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in
  love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this is love perfected with
  us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he
  is so also are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love
  casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has
  not been perfected in love. We love because he first loved us. If anyone
  says, I love God, and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not
  love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. And
  this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his
  brother. (ESV)

76.3. Hades and Hell - eternal fire

  Ephesians 4:8-10 - Therefore it says, When he ascended on high he led a
  host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. (In saying, He ascended, what
  does it mean but that he had also descended into the lower parts of the
  earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the
  heavens, that he might fill all things.) (ESV)

76.3.1. Those who do not trust God's testimony of Jesus are condemned even now,
and should repent and believe to not be condemned

I think John 5:24 reads that the one who is trusting the words spoken through
Jesus, trusting God, trusting Jesus is holds/posesses eternal life and has
passed from death into life.

2064. erchomai
to come, go

3327. metabain
to pass over, withdraw, depart

In trusting Jesus' words - or even His name (onoma) and He is the judge - we
do not come into judgement, but change direction, and instead our destiny is
life eternal. Jesus is the judge of that. We do not come into judgement:

  John 5:21-24 - For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so
  also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has
  given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they
  honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father
  who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears (191. akouó) my
  word (3056. logos) and believes (4100. pisteuó) him who sent me has eternal
  life. He does not come (2064. erchomai) into judgment, but has passed
  (3327. metabain) from death to life. (ESV)

  John 3:18 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn) in him is not condemned, but
  whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed
  in the name (onoma) of the only Son of God. (ESV)

76.3.2. Eternal life vs eternal punishment - Judgement at the close of the age

  Matthew 25:43-46 - I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and
  you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me. Then
  they also will answer, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty
  or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to you?
  Then he will answer them, saying, Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it
  to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. And these will go
  away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. (ESV)

It's really important to get to know God and obey the gospel of our Lord
Jesus:

  II Thessalonians 1:5-10 - This is evidence of the righteous judgment of
  God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you
  are also suffering— since indeed God considers it just to repay with
  affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are
  afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven
  with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who
  do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus.
  They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the
  presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might, when he comes on that
  day to be glorified in his saints, and to be marveled at among all who have
  believed, because our testimony to you was believed. (ESV)

  I John 4:6-12 - We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever
  is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth
  and the spirit of error. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from
  God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does
  not love does not know God, because God is love. In this the love of God
  was made manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so
  that we might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God
  but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
  Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has
  ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is
  perfected in us. (ESV)

  Matthew 25:41 - Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you
  cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. (ESV)

76.3.3. Sheol / Hades - this is where Jesus went

Read
youthpastortheologian.com: What does the Apostles' Creed mean by "He
descended to the dead"? - Youth Pastor Theologian

  Proverbs 15:24 - The path of life leads upward for the prudent, that he may
  turn away from Sheol beneath. (ESV)

  Matthew 12:40 - For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the
  belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three
  nights in the heart of the earth. (ESV)

  Proverbs 2:16-19 - So you will be delivered from the forbidden woman, from
  the adulteress with her smooth words, who forsakes the companion of her
  youth and forgets the covenant of her God; for her house sinks down to
  death, and her paths to the departed; none who go to her come back, nor do
  they regain the paths of life. (ESV)

  John 5:25 - Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and now is, when
  the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will
  live. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:6 - For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are
  dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live
  in the spirit the way God does. (ESV)

7585. sheol
Definition: underworld (place to which people descend at death).

86. hadés
Definition: Hades, the abode of departed spirits. Usage: Hades, the unseen
world.

  Psalms 9:17 - The wicked shall return to Sheol, all the nations that forget
  God. (ESV)

While Sheol/Hades includes a place of torment regarded to be hell, that place
is not the Lake of Fire, but it's still not a nice place:

  Proverbs 23:14 - If you strike him with the rod, you will save his soul
  from Sheol. (ESV)

  Proverbs 23:14 - Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his
  soul from hell. (KJV)

But Sheol will be thrown into hell after those in Sheol are judged.

  Acts 2:27-28 - For you will not abandon my soul to Hades, or let your Holy
  One see corruption. You have made known to me the paths of life; you will
  make me full of gladness with your presence. (ESV)

The bad part of Sheol/Hades though is still a place of torment with fire.
Maybe Jesus visited this place - I suppose He did:

  Revelation of John 1:17-18 - When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though
  dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, Fear not, I am the first
  and the last, and the living one. I died, and behold I am alive
  forevermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades. (ESV)

KJV considers this place to be hell too - but it's not the Lake of Fire:

  Luke 16:27-28 - And he said, Then I beg you, father, to send him to my
  father's house— for I have five brothers—so that he may warn them, lest
  they also come into this place of torment. (ESV)

Death and Hades will be thrown into the lake of fire, which is Hell:

  Revelation of John 20:13-14 - And the sea gave up the dead who were in it,
  Death and Hades (86. hadés) gave up the dead who were in them, and they
  were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done. Then Death
  and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the
  lake of fire. (ESV)

Jesus went to Hades, the bad part:

  I Peter 3:18-20 - For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for
  the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the
  flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the
  spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience
  waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a
  few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. (ESV)

And Jesus went to the Bosom of Abraham:

  Luke 23:43 - And he said to him, Truly, I say to you, today you will be
  with me in Paradise. (ESV)

Read
gotquestions.org did-Jesus-go-to-hell.html: Did Jesus go to hell between His
death and resurrection? | GotQuestions.org

  In the Hebrew Scriptures, the word used to describe the realm of the dead
  is sheol. It simply means "the place of the dead" or "the place of departed
  souls/spirits." The New Testament Greek equivalent of sheol is hades, which
  also refers to "the place of the dead." The New Testament indicates that
  sheol/hades is a temporary place, where souls are kept as they await the
  final resurrection and judgment. Revelation 20:11-15 makes a clear
  distinction between hades and the lake of fire. The lake of fire is the
  permanent and final place of judgment for the lost. Hades, then, is a
  temporary place. Many people refer to both hades and the lake of fire as
  "hell," and this causes confusion.

If Jesus visited the place of torment in Luke 16:28 (the bad part of
Sheol/Hades), it was just temporarily. My current belief is that He would
have visited all of the place of the dead (both sides of the chasm).

Jesus went to Hades and I haven't been convinced that Jesus did not visit the
bad part of Hades. Jesus experienced Death and Jesus experienced Hades.

  Revelation of John 1:18 - and the living one. I died, and behold I am alive
  forevermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades. (ESV)

Sheol/hades is a realm with two divisions - a place of blessing and a place
of judgment (Matthew 11:23; Matthew 16:18; Luke 10:15; Luke 16:23; Acts
| 27-31). The abodes of the saved and the lost are both generally called
"hades" in the Bible. The abode of those who die while they have done good in
this life is also called "Abraham's bosom" (KJV) or "Abraham's side" (NIV) in
Luke 16:22 and "paradise" in Luke 23:43.

The abodes of the ones who have lived righteously in God's sight and the lost
are separated by a "great chasm" (Luke 16:26).

When Jesus died, He went to the blessed side of sheol, or paradise.

(Some believe, based on a particular interpretation of Ephesians 4:8-10, that
Jesus took believers with Him from sheol to another place of bliss that we
now call heaven.

More likely, Ephesians 4 refers to the ascension of Christ.) All the
unbelieving dead go to the cursed side of hades to await the final judgment.
All the believing dead go to the blessed side of hades to await the
resurrection.

Some of the confusion has arisen from such passages as Psalm 16:10-11 as
translated in the King James Version: "For thou wilt not leave my soul in
hell; neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption. . . . Thou
wilt show me the path of life." "Hell" is not a correct translation in this
verse. A correct reading would be "the grave" or "sheol." Jesus said to the
thief beside Him, "Today you will be with me in paradise" (Luke 23:43)

76.3.4. The dead hearing the gospel - was it only a one time thing?

Though not raised, the dead may hear the voice of the son of God, the gospel,
and live in the spirit the way God does.

  I Corinthians 15:29 - Otherwise, what do people mean by being baptized on
  behalf of the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why are people
  baptized on their behalf? (ESV)

  John 5:25 - Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here,
  when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear
  will live. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:6 - For the gospel has for this purpose been preached even to
  those who are dead, that though they are judged in the flesh as men, they
  may live in the spirit according to the will of God. (NASB)

If a person rejects Jesus in this life and dies, then from what Jesus has
said here, they wont repent:

  Luke 16:30-31 - And he said, No, father Abraham, but if someone goes to
  them from the dead, they will repent. He said to him, If they do not hear
  Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be convinced if someone should
  rise from the dead. (ESV)

I think it's important to trust Jesus in this life because no guarantees with
hearing the gospel in the place of the dead. Who knows, though, right?
Because perhaps a believer who dies in Christ could preach the gospel to
Hades and bounce back up as Jesus did. But even then, I think Jesus makes it
plain that if a person rejects the Truth before they die then they won't
accept in even in the place of the dead.

  John 5:25 - Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and now is, when
  the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will
  live. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:6 - For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are
  dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live
  in the spirit the way God does. (ESV)

  Mark 16:16 - Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever
  does not believe will be condemned. (ESV)

Proclaiming the gospel in the place of the dead might have only been a
one-time thing:

  I Peter 3:18-22 - For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for
  the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the
  flesh but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the
  spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience
  waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a
  few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism,
  which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the
  body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the
  resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at the right
  hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to
  him. (ESV)

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes (G4100 pisteuōn - is believing (verb)) in the
  Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey (544. apeitheó) the Son shall
  not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

  John 5:28-29 - Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who
  are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, those who have done good
  to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the
  resurrection of judgment. (ESV)

76.3.5. Tartaroó

God cast rebellious angels into this place. It sounds like Hades but maybe
worse:

  II Peter 2:4 - For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast
  them into hell (5020. tartaroó) and committed them to chains of gloomy
  darkness to be kept until the judgment; (ESV)

God sent/sends rebellious angels into this place called Tartaroó. Satan and
his angels and demons will ultimately end up in the eternal fire.

  Jude 1:6-7 - And the angels who did not stay within their own position of
  authority, but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains
  under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day — just as Sodom
  and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual
  immorality and pursued unnatural desire, serve as an example by undergoing
  a punishment of eternal fire. (ESV)

76.3.6. Hell, lake of fire, the second death

Jesus didn't go to the Lake of Fire, as far as I understand. Jesus went to
the place of the dead, both Abraham's Bosom and the bad part of Sheol/Hades
colloquially known as hell. The Lake of Fire is the final Hell, and is a
Christless eternity with no hope of salvation.

  Matthew 10:28 - And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the
  soul. Rather fear him who can destroy (622. apollumi) both soul and body in
  hell. (ESV)

622. apollumi
Definition: to destroy, destroy utterly Usage: (a) I kill, destroy, (b) I
lose, mid: I am perishing (the resultant death being viewed as certain). 622
apóllymi (from 575 /apó, "away from," which intensifies ollymi, "to destroy")
– properly, fully destroy, cutting off entirely *(note the force of the
prefix, 575 /apó). 622 /apóllymi *("violently/completely perish") implies
permanent (absolute) destruction, i.e. to cancel out (remove); "to die, with
the implication of ruin and destruction" (L & N, 1, 23.106); cause to be lost
(utterly perish) by experiencing a miserable end.

The Lake of Fire is where unrepentant sinners who reject God (and reject
Jesus) go - i.e. those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the
gospel of our Lord Jesus - they do not want to be saved from their sin. It's
also where Satan and his angels and demons go:

  Matthew 13:49-50 - So it will be at the close of the age. The angels will
  come out and separate the evil from the righteous and throw them into the
  fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
  (ESV)

  Revelation of John 21:8 - But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the
  detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters,
  and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and
  sulfur, which is the second death. (ESV)

  Mark 9:42-44 - Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to
  sin, it would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his
  neck and he were thrown into the sea. And if your hand causes you to sin,
  cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands
  to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire. (ESV)

  Mark 9:45-46 - If your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off; it is better
  for you to enter life lame, than, having your two feet, to be cast into
  hell, [where their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched.] (NASB)

  Matthew 25:41 - Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you
  cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 19:20 - And the beast was captured, and with it the
  false prophet who in its presence had done the signs by which he deceived
  those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped its
  image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with
  sulfur. (ESV)

  Matthew 13:42 - and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there
  will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. (ESV)

The lake of fire is for people who not only are unrepentant sinners but also
reject Christ (they do not want to be saved).

What is the difference between Sheol, Hades, Hell, the lake of fire,
Paradise, and Abraham’s bosom?
The lake of fire, mentioned only in Revelation 19:20 and Revelation 20:10,
Revelation 14-15, is the final hell, the place of eternal punishment for all
unrepentant rebels, both angelic and human (Matthew 25:41). It is described
as a place of burning sulfur, and those in it experience eternal, unspeakable
agony of an unrelenting nature (Luke 16:24; Mark 9:45-46). Those who have
rejected Christ and are in the temporary abode of the dead in hades/sheol
have the lake of fire as their final destination.

76.3.7. The ones who have not heard the gospel are judged by God very fairly

  Romans 2:13-16 - For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous
  before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. For when
  Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they
  are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show
  that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience
  also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse
  them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of
  men by Christ Jesus. (ESV)

  Romans 2:26-29 - So, if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of
  the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he
  who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have
  the written code and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew
  who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But
  a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the
  Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man but from God. (ESV)

  Isaiah 65:1 - I was ready to be sought by those who did not ask for me; I
  was ready to be found by those who did not seek me. I said, Here am I, here
  am I, to a nation that was not called by my name. (ESV)

As God judges, unrighteous people remain under punishment until they are
judged and until the righteous are freed from trial:

  II Peter 2:5-10 - if he did not spare the ancient world, but preserved
  Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when he brought a flood
  upon the world of the ungodly; if by turning the cities of Sodom and
  Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them to extinction, making them an example
  of what is going to happen to the ungodly; and if he rescued righteous Lot,
  greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked (for as that
  righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his
  righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard); then the
  Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous
  under punishment until the day of judgment, and especially those who
  indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise authority. Bold and
  willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the glorious ones, (ESV)

76.3.8. The outcome of just judgement for all

  Job 12:10 - In his hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of
  all mankind. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 11:18 - The nations raged, but your wrath came, and the
  time for the dead to be judged, and for rewarding your servants, the
  prophets and saints, and those who fear your name, both small and great,
  and for destroying the destroyers of the earth. (ESV)

Glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also
the Greek. For God shows no partiality.

  Luke 16:22-25 - The poor man died and was carried by the angels to
  Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried, and in Hades, being
  in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at
  his side. And he called out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send
  Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am
  in anguish in this flame. But Abraham said, Child, remember that you in
  your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad
  things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish. (ESV)

  Romans 2:6-11 - He will render to each one according to his works: to those
  who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he
  will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey
  the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There
  will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the
  Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor and peace for everyone
  who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no
  partiality. (ESV)

God judges:

  Revelation of John 14:7 - And he said with a loud voice, Fear God and give
  him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who
  made heaven and earth, the sea and the springs of water. (ESV)

The Father judges no one but God judges through Jesus, the Son, who He, the
Father, has sent. The Father is God. The Son is God:

  John 5:22-23 - The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the
  Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever
  does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. (ESV)

  Matthew 16:27 - For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the
  glory of his Father, and then he will repay each person according to what
  he has done. (ESV)

Jesus is the Alpha and the Omega. Jesus is God:

  Revelation of John 22:12-13 - Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my
  recompense with me, to repay everyone for what he has done. I am the Alpha
  and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. (ESV)

  John 5:28-29 - Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who
  are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, those who have done good
  to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the
  resurrection of judgment. (ESV)

Jesus has literally taught people that that if we love our enemies, do good
and lend, expecting nothing in return we will be rewarded and be sons of the
Most High. This shows that obedience to Jesus is just part of having faith in
Jesus:

  Luke 6:35-36 - But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting
  nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of
  the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful,
  even as your Father is merciful. (ESV)

The prophets, saints, and servants of Jesus will be rewarded:

  Revelation of John 11:18 - The nations raged, but your wrath came, and the
  time for the dead to be judged, and for rewarding your servants, the
  prophets and saints, and those who fear your name, both small and great,
  and for destroying the destroyers of the earth. (ESV)

76.3.9. The unrepentant sinners including believers who do not want to repent
from sin

Sinning believers will still experience tribulation. Believers who are
unrepentant from sin are probably not true trusters of Jesus or are
rebellious even in face of hearing the gospel and maybe even experience the
literal place Hades (the bad part). I could be wrong, but I don't want to
test God. It's a bad idea to put Christ to the test. Jesus is the Judge.

  Matthew 16:15-19 - He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon
  Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus
  answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not
  revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you
  are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell
  (G86 hadés) shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the
  kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven,
  and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. (ESV)

  Luke 4:8 - And Jesus answered him, It is written, You shall worship the
  Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:8-11 - We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of
  them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We must not put
  Christ to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor
  grumble, as some of them did and were destroyed by the Destroyer. Now these
  things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our
  instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come. (ESV)

Those who do not repent from sin (stop serving sin), but instead embrace evil
will experience tribulation.

Polycarp 2:1
Wherefore gird up your loins and serve God in fear and truth, forsaking the
vain and empty talking and the error of the many, for that ye have believed
on Him that raised our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead and gave unto him
glory and a throne on His right hand; unto whom all things were made subject
that are in heaven and that are on the earth; to whom every creature that
hath breath doeth service; who cometh as judge of quick and dead; whose blood
God will require of them that are disobedient unto Him.

All sin servers (rather than those who serve Christ - even 'believers' who
don't serve Jesus) will experience tribulation and distress on earth if they
do not turn to Jesus to serve Christ and simultaneously turn away from
serving sin.

If a person is a remorseless, unrepentant "sin server", it's better for them
that their body destroyed so their soul is saved:

  I Corinthians 5:4-5 - When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus
  and my spirit is present, with the power of our Lord Jesus, you are to
  deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his
  spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. (ESV)

I don't say sinner here anymore because even those who trust Jesus make
mistakes, and we're always reliant on the mercy of God.

G1067. geenna
Hell is the place of the future punishment called "Gehenna" or "Gehenna of
fire". This was originally the valley of Hinnom, south of Jerusalem, where
the filth and dead animals of the city were cast out and burned; a fit symbol
of the wicked and their future destruction.

  Matthew 5:29-30 - If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and
  throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that
  your whole body be thrown into hell (G1067. geenna). And if your right hand
  causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you
  lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. (ESV)

Me speculating

Hades as it's used in this way could possibly look appearance-wise the same,
but perhaps God re-organises cities and their inhabitants (me speculating),
say forcing unrepentant sinners to other cities. I still believe it's also
literal place.

Luke 10:15 - And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You shall be
brought down to Hades. (ESV)

7585. sheol
Definition: underworld (place to which people descend at death).

86. hadés
Definition: Hades, the abode of departed spirits. Usage: Hades, the unseen
world.

  Psalms 9:17 - The wicked shall return to Sheol, all the nations that forget
  God. (ESV)

Any person who is experiencing tribulation/torment for wrongdoing would not
be experiencing the Kingdom of God on earth, but they may still go to heaven
at the final judgment if they end up putting their trust in Jesus Christ:

  Romans 2:6-11 - He will render to each one according to his works: to those
  who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he
  will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey
  the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There
  will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the
  Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor and peace for everyone
  who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no
  partiality. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 10:8-13 - We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of
  them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We must not put
  Christ to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor
  grumble, as some of them did and were destroyed by the Destroyer. Now these
  things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our
  instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come. Therefore let anyone who
  thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken
  you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be
  tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide
  the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it.

  II Peter 2:2-11 - And many will follow their sensuality, and because of
  them the way of truth will be blasphemed. And in their greed they will
  exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle,
  and their destruction is not asleep. For if God did not spare angels when
  they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy
  darkness to be kept until the judgment; if he did not spare the ancient
  world, but preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others,
  when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly; if by turning the
  cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them to extinction,
  making them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly; and if he
  rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the
  wicked (for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was
  tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and
  heard); then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to
  keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment, and
  especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise
  authority. Bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the
  glorious ones, whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not
  pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord. (ESV)

The bad part of Sheol/Hades is for those who do evil deeds, possibly
including believers who do not repent/turn away from sin to start serving
Jesus:

  Luke 16:22-31 - The poor man died and was carried by the angels to
  Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried, and in Hades, being
  in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at
  his side. And he called out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send
  Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am
  in anguish in this flame. But Abraham said, Child, remember that you in
  your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad
  things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish. And besides
  all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that
  those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross
  from there to us. And he said, Then I beg you, father, to send him to my
  father's house— for I have five brothers—so that he may warn them, lest
  they also come into this place of torment. But Abraham said, They have
  Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them. And he said, No, father
  Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent. He
  said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the Prophets, neither will they
  be convinced if someone should rise from the dead. (ESV)

youtube.com: Judgment Is Coming For Those Who Distort Scripture @time: 2 min
5 sec
God is love. Everything he does is out of love. So you have to look at
judgment in the light of love, and you have to look at a person's long-term,
not short-term, benefit. Because God's always interested in the eternal. He's
put eternity in our hearts, and when we look at the length of this life,
Arden, it is a blip, a blip on the screen, compared to eternity. And so God
is always speaking to us in regard to our eternal benefit, not our temporary.

  I John 2:19 - They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they
  had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out, that
  it might become plain that they all are not of us. (ESV)

Unrighteous people remain locked up here until judgement:

  II Peter 2:5-10 - if he did not spare the ancient world, but preserved
  Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when he brought a flood
  upon the world of the ungodly; if by turning the cities of Sodom and
  Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them to extinction, making them an example
  of what is going to happen to the ungodly; and if he rescued righteous Lot,
  greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked (for as that
  righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his
  righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard); then the
  Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous
  under punishment until the day of judgment, and especially those who
  indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise authority. Bold and
  willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the glorious ones, (ESV)

If a person rejects Jesus in this life and dies, then from what Jesus has
said here, they wont repent:

  Luke 16:30-31 - And he said, No, father Abraham, but if someone goes to
  them from the dead, they will repent. He said to him, If they do not hear
  Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be convinced if someone should
  rise from the dead. (ESV)

But the ones who hear the voice of God and trust in Jesus will certainly be
spared from the Lake of Fire at the judgement.

  John 5:24 - Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes
  him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has
  passed from death to life. (ESV)

76.3.10. The believers who have embraced repentance from sin and sanctification
while on earth

Believers who have obeyed the gospel and are living to serve Christ will
enter the Kingdom of God while on Earth and inherit eternal life and not
experience the place of torment in Hades, but go straight to heaven.

  Romans 2:6-11 - He will render to each one according to his works: to those
  who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he
  will give eternal life; but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey
  the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There
  will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the
  Jew first and also the Greek, but glory and honor and peace for everyone
  who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no
  partiality. (ESV)

76.3.11. Those who are not repentant from sin, and who do not trust Jesus (do
not want to be saved) will go to the second death, the Lake of Fire

  Luke 5:31-32 - And Jesus answered them, Those who are well have no need of
  a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous
  but sinners to repentance. (ESV)

Those who do not ultimately repent from serving/practicing sin who also
distrust Jesus (they do not want to do the will of God) will go to the lake
of fire:

  Revelation of John 21:5-8 - And he who was seated on the throne said,
  Behold, I am making all things new. Also he said, Write this down, for
  these words are trustworthy and true. And he said to me, It is done! I am
  the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will
  give from the spring of the water of life without payment. The one who
  conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God and he will be my
  son. But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for
  murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their
  portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the
  second death. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 20:14-15 - Then Death and Hades were thrown into the
  lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's
  name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake
  of fire. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 20:9-10 - And they marched up over the broad plain of
  the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city, but
  fire came down from heaven and consumed them, and the devil who had
  deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur where the beast
  and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night
  forever and ever. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 14:11 - And the smoke of their torment goes up forever
  and ever, and they have no rest, day or night, these worshipers of the
  beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name. (ESV)

77. Jesus Christ is Lord! :)

The Only True God is the God and Father of Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ who
He Sent.

  John 17:3 - And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God,
  and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. (ESV)

We serve the Most High God, Jehovah and Jesus Christ who He has sent:

  I Corinthians 8:5-7 - For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or
  on earth — as indeed there are many gods and many lords — yet for us there
  is one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist, and
  one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we
  exist. However, not all possess this knowledge. But some, through former
  association with idols, eat food as really offered to an idol, and their
  conscience, being weak, is defiled. (ESV)

  Deuteronomy 10:17 - For the LORD your God is God of gods and Lord of lords,
  the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who is not partial and takes no
  bribe. (ESV)

What I believe is that everything that is in the 'made' category has been
created through Jesus (Yeshua) by Jehovah (Yahweh) God. Jesus Christ was not
made. He was there with Jehovah in the beginning. He is the Word of God.
Jesus is God the Son:

  John 1:1-3 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
  the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made
  through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made. (ESV)

  Colossians 1:15 - He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of
  all creation. (ESV)

  Jude 1:25 - to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be
  glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, before all time and now and
  forever. Amen. (ESV)

  John 3:33-34 - Whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this, that
  God is true. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives
  the Spirit without measure. (ESV)

  Ephesians 3:20-21 - Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than
  all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us, to him
  be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations,
  forever and ever. Amen. (ESV)

  I Chronicles 29:11 - Yours, O LORD, is the greatness and the power and the
  glory and the victory and the majesty, for all that is in the heavens and
  in the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, O LORD, and you are exalted as
  head above all. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 19:1 - After this I heard what seemed to be the loud
  voice of a great multitude in heaven, crying out, Hallelujah! Salvation and
  glory and power belong to our God, (ESV)

  I Timothy 6:15-16 - which he will display at the proper time—he who is the
  blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords, who alone
  has immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no one has ever
  seen or can see. To him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 17:14 - They will make war on the Lamb, and the Lamb
  will conquer them, for he is Lord of lords and King of kings, and those
  with him are called and chosen and faithful. (ESV)

  I Timothy 1:17 - To the King of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be
  honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.

Jesus Christ (God the Son) currently has all authority in heaven and earth:

  Matthew 28:18 - And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven
  and on earth has been given to me. (ESV)

Fellow heirs with Christ are still in subjection to Christ. Fellow heirs with
Christ have Christ as their King and Lord and Saviour and God and Jehovah as
their God.

Christ is reigning until all things are subjected to Him. We must come under
the Lordship of Christ Jesus. I consider any so-called god which is in
rebellion to Christ to be a demon:

  I Corinthians 15:25-28 - For he must reign until he has put all his enemies
  under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For God has put
  all things in subjection under his feet. But when it says, all things are
  put in subjection, it is plain that he is excepted who put all things in
  subjection under him. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son
  himself will also be subjected to him who put all things in subjection
  under him, that God may be all in all. (ESV)

  Daniel 7:13-14 - I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of
  heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the Ancient of Days
  and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a
  kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him; his
  dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his
  kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. (ESV)

Jesus Christ has total dominion:

  I Peter 4:11 - whoever speaks, as one who speaks oracles of God; whoever
  serves, as one who serves by the strength that God supplies—in order that
  in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong
  glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. (ESV)

  Acts 2:36 - Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God
  has made him both Lord (G2962 kurios) and Christ (G5547 Christos), this
  Jesus whom you crucified. (ESV)

|  kurios: Lord, master, owner
|  Original Word: κύριος
|  Part of Speech: Noun, Masculine
|  Transliteration: kurios
|  Pronunciation: koo'-ree-os
|  Phonetic Spelling: (koo'-ree-os)
|  Definition: Lord, master, owner
|  Meaning: lord, master, sir; the Lord.

|  Christos: Christ, Anointed One, Messiah
|  Original Word: Χριστός
|  Part of Speech: Noun, Masculine
|  Transliteration: Christos
|  Pronunciation: khris-TOS
|  Phonetic Spelling: (khris-tos')
|  Definition: Christ, Anointed One, Messiah
|  Meaning: Anointed One; the Messiah, the Christ.

77.1. The Bible says the ones who are co-heirs with Christ are the ones who
suffer with Him

  Romans 8:16-17 - The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we
  are children of God, and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and fellow
  heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be
  glorified with him. (ESV)

  I Peter 4:12-19 - Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it
  comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to
  you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may
  also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted
  for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of
  God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or
  an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him
  not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for
  judgment to begin at the household of God; and if it begins with us, what
  will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And If the
  righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the
  sinner? Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will entrust
  their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. (ESV)

Jesus is not ashamed to call brothers [and sisters] those who are cleaned up
and sanctified through obedience to Jesus' gospel:

  Hebrews 2:11 - For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have
  one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, (ESV)

  I Corinthians 1:2 - To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those
  sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who
  in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord
  and ours: (ESV)

77.2. The Bible does not say we are kings - it says we are royalty - a royal
priesthood for His possession

  Revelation of John 1:5 - and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the
  firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To Him who
  loves us and released us from our sins by His blood– (NASB)

  Revelation of John 1:5 (Interlinear) - and from Jesus Christ the witness -
  faithful the firstborn of the dead and the ruler of the kings of the earth
  To the [One] loving us and releasing us from the sins of us through the
  blood of Him (Interlinear - biblehub.com)

|  2532 575  2424  5547      3588    3144
|  kai  apo  Iēsou Christou  ho      martys
|  καὶ  ἀπὸ  Ἰησοῦ Χριστοῦ , ὁ       μάρτυς
|  and  from Jesus Christ    the     witness
|  Conj Prep N-GMS N-GMS     Art-NMS N-NMS
| 
|  3588    4103      3588    4416       3588    3498
|  ho      pistos    ho      prōtotokos tōn     nekrōn
|  ὁ       πιστός  , ὁ       πρωτότοκος τῶν     νεκρῶν
|    -      faithful  the     firstborn  of the  dead
|   Art-NMS Adj-NMS   Art-NMS Adj-NMS    Art-GMP Adj-GMP
|  
|   2532 3588    758    3588    935      3588
|   kai  ho      archōn tōn     basileōn tēs
|   καὶ  ὁ       ἄρχων  τῶν     βασιλέων τῆς
|   and  the     ruler  of the  kings    of the
|   Conj Art-NMS N-NMS  Art-GMP N-GMP    Art-GFS
|  
|   1093   3588         25        1473     2532
|   gēs    Tō           agapōnti  hēmas    kai
|   γῆς  . Τῷ           ἀγαπῶντι  ἡμᾶς     καὶ
|   earth  To the [One] loving    us       and
|   N-GFS  Art-DMS      V-PPA-DMS PPro-A1P Conj
|  
|   3089      1473     1537 3588    266
|   lysanti   hēmas    ek   tōn     hamartiōn
|   λύσαντι   ἡμᾶς     ἐκ   τῶν     ἁμαρτιῶν
|   releasing us       from the     sins
|   V-APA-DMS PPro-A1P Prep Art-GFP N-GFP
|  
|   1473     1722    3588    129     846
|   hēmōn    en      tō      haimati autou
|   ἡμῶν     ἐν      τῷ      αἵματι  αὐτοῦ   —
|   of us    through the     blood   of Him
|   PPro-G1P Prep    Art-DNS N-DNS   PPro-GM3S

  I Peter 2:9 - But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation,
  a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of
  him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. (ESV)

  I Peter 2:9 (Interlinear) - You however [are] a race chosen a royal
  priesthood a nation holy a people for [His] possession so that the
  excellencies you may proclaim of the [One] out of darkness you having
  called to the marvelous of Him light (Interlinear - biblehub.com)

|  4771     1161    1085         1588       934
|  Hymeis   de      genos        eklekton   basileion
|  Ὑμεῖς    δὲ      γένος        ἐκλεκτόν , βασίλειον
|  You      however [are] a race chosen     a royal
|  PPro-N2P Conj    N-NNS        Adj-NNS    Adj-NNS
| 
|  2406         1484     40       2992     1519
|  hierateuma   ethnos   hagion   laos     eis
|  ἱεράτευμα  , ἔθνος    ἅγιον  , λαὸς     εἰς
|   priesthood   a nation holy     a people for [His]
|   N-NNS        N-NNS    Adj-NNS  N-NMS    Prep
|  
|   4047          3704    3588     703
|   peripoiēsin   hopōs   tas      aretas
|   περιποίησιν , ὅπως    τὰς      ἀρετὰς
|   possession    so that the      excellencies
|   N-AFS         Conj    Art-AFP  N-AFP
|  
|   1804             3588         1537   4655
|   exangeilēte      tou          ek     skotous
|   ἐξαγγείλητε      τοῦ          ἐκ     σκότους
|   you may proclaim of the [One] out of darkness
|   V-ASA-2P         Art-GMS      Prep   N-GNS
|  
|   4771     2564          1519 3588    2298
|   hymas    kalesantos    eis  to      thaumaston
|   ὑμᾶς     καλέσαντος  , εἰς  τὸ      θαυμαστὸν
|   you      having called to   the     marvelous
|   PPro-A2P V-APA-GMS     Prep Art-ANS Adj-ANS
|  
|   846       5457
|   autou     phōs
|   αὐτοῦ     φῶς  ,
|   of Him    light
|   PPro-GM3S N-ANS

Being a saint (trusting, faithful, obedient Christians who endure while
keeping the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus):

  Revelation of John 14:12 - Here is a call for the endurance of the saints,
  those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus.

Quote by Charles Spurgeon
All are "saints" whom God has called by His grace and sanctified by His
Spirit;

Jesus is not ashamed to call brothers [and sisters] those who are cleaned up
and sanctified through obedience to Jesus' gospel:

  Hebrews 2:11 - For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have
  one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, (ESV)

There is a promise for the saints who conquer and keep Jesus' teachings to
the end - authority over the nations:

  Revelation of John 2:25-29 - Only hold fast what you have until I come. The
  one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give
  authority over the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron, as
  when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received
  authority from my Father. And I will give him the morning star. He who has
  an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. (ESV)

  II Timothy 2:12 - if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny
  him, he also will deny us; (ESV)

Conquerors should not let sin reign in their mortal bodies:

  Romans 7:11-14 - So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive
  to God in Christ Jesus. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies,
  to make you obey their passions. Do not present your members to sin as
  instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who
  have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as
  instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you,
  since you are not under law but under grace. (ESV)

  Revelation of John 3:18-21 - I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by
  fire, so that you may be rich, and white garments so that you may clothe
  yourself and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen, and salve to
  anoint your eyes, so that you may see. Those whom I love, I reprove and
  discipline, so be zealous and repent. Behold, I stand at the door and
  knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him
  and eat with him, and he with me. The one who conquers, I will grant him to
  sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father
  on his throne. (ESV)

78. AMEN!!

Sermon
youtube.com: There's Only One Acceptable Motive To Serve God

The motivation for everything must be to glorify God.

78.1. Do the will of the Father - obey Jesus. It's not just the red letters
either. We must keep God's commandments. AMEN!!

youtube.com: The most terrifying passage in the Bible | Matthew 7:21-23

  Luke 8:21 - But He answered and said to them, “My mother and My brothers
  are these who hear the word of God and do it.” (ESV)

  Matthew 12:48-50 - But he replied to the man who told him, Who is my
  mother, and who are my brothers? And stretching out his hand toward his
  disciples, he said, Here are my mother and my brothers! For whoever does
  the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. (ESV)

Paul agrees:

  Philippians 4:9 - What you have learned and received and heard and seen in
  me — practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. (ESV)

Walk as an imitator of Christ:

  Philippians 3:17-18 - Brothers, join in imitating me, and keep your eyes on
  those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many, of whom I
  have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of
  the cross of Christ. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 11:1 - Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ. (ESV)

Do not be an enemy of the cross of Christ, submit to the righteousness of God
- we needed Jehovah God, Father of Jesus Christ, to pay for our sin - and we
must imitate Christ, passing forward Christ's love and forgiving as we have
been forgiven, and repenting from sin:

  Hebrews 13:7 - Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you the word of
  God. Consider the outcome of their way of life, and imitate their faith.
  (ESV)

  III John 1:11 - Beloved, do not imitate evil but imitate good. Whoever does
  good is from God; whoever does evil has not seen God. (ESV)

  John 3:19 - This is the judgment, that the Light has come into the world,
  and men loved the darkness rather than the Light, for their deeds were
  evil. (ESV)

It's obedience which leads to righteousness, even the righteousness of faith:

  Romans 6:16 - Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as
  obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin,
  which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? (ESV)

  Romans 4:12-13 - and to make him the father of the circumcised who are not
  merely circumcised but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our
  father Abraham had before he was circumcised. For the promise to Abraham
  and his offspring that he would be heir of the world did not come through
  the law but through the righteousness of faith.

78.1.1. Obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus

  II Thessalonians 1:4-8 - Therefore we ourselves boast about you in the
  churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions
  and in the afflictions that you are enduring. This is evidence of the
  righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom
  of God, for which you are also suffering — since indeed God considers it
  just to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to
  you who are afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed
  from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on
  those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our
  Lord Jesus. (ESV)

78.1.2. A heart of belief and obedience is the start of faith

  John 7:17 - If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the
  teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. (ESV)

Believing Father God Jehovah, loving Him, obeying His commandments, loving
and obeying Jesus Christ His son, all must be true together, even to have a
sound definition of what love is:

  I John 5:1-3 - Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born
  of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of
  him. By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and
  obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his
  commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome. (ESV)

  John 8:42 - Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me,
  for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent
  me.

  I John 3:24 - Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them.
  And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given
  us. (ESV)

The fear of God helps us to obey Him. God please forgive us:

  Jeremiah 32:40 - I will make with them an everlasting covenant, that I will
  not turn away from doing good to them. And I will put the fear of me in
  their hearts, that they may not turn from me. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 7:1 - Therefore, having these promises, beloved, let us
  cleanse ourselves (G1438 heautou) from all (G3956 pas) defilement of flesh
  (G4561 sarx) and spirit (G4151 pneuma), perfecting holiness in the fear of
  God (G2316 theos).

  Proverbs 9:10 - The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom, and the
  knowledge of the Holy One is insight. (ESV)

Fear of God is not only about having the heart to repent from sin and "beat
hand on chest and ask God for mercy", but it is also having a changed heart,
endeavoring to please Christ with our actions:

  II Corinthians 5:6-11 - So we are always of good courage. We know that
  while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord, for we walk by
  faith, not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be
  away from the body and at home with the Lord. So whether we are at home or
  away, we make it our aim to please him. For we must all appear before the
  judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what
  he has done in the body, whether good or evil. Therefore, knowing the fear
  of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I
  hope it is known also to your conscience. (ESV)

  II Corinthians 7:10 - For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to
  salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death. (ESV)

78.2. For one's work to stand the test of fire

It should be:

• For God's Glory. Amen. All glory to God, not to me
• In obedience to the Word of God
• Working in the power of the Holy Spirit

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
God's telephone number                     The password
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Jeremiah 33:3 - Call to me and I      Psalms 100:4 - Enter his gates with
will answer you, and will tell you    thanksgiving, and his courts with
great and hidden things that you      praise! Give thanks to him; bless his
have not known. (ESV)                 name! (ESV)
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Medley
youtube.com: God And God Alone {Gospel Medley}

Medley
youtube.com: Holy Are You Lord Medley | Jesus Image

Song
youtube.com: All Honor {Consuming Fire} | Jesus Image

Song
youtube.com: Praise {feat. Brandon Lake, Chris Brown & Chandler Moore} |
Elevation Worship

youtube.com: Hillsong - Saviour King 2007
Life began for me in just the realisation that there is the absolute truth,
and that is a Person, Jesus, and knowing Him - knowing the Christ - is
knowing the hands that created me. The thing is, I've known what it is to
live without truth, and then to be living in truth, and it's a difference
between being bound, and then living in absolute freedom. Like I just think
about the grace of God, just His grace, undeserved for me, bought at the
highest price and I think in that understanding alone there's no option but
to give Him everything I have. That is the only possible response.

  Isaiah 64:4 - From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye
  has seen a God besides you, who acts for those who wait for him. (ESV)

  Acts 5:39 - but if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them.
  You might even be found opposing God! So they took his advice, (ESV)

78.3. Please help me by repenting, forgiving your family in Christ, and imitating
Christ

• I forgive everyone.
• I hold no grudges.
• But I'm fighting a spiritual battle right now, and I'm going to speak the
truth as best as I can.

  I Corinthians 13:6 - it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with
  the truth. (ESV)

I am really sorry for any hurt I have been the cause of to anyone, and making
frustrated prayers to God, like Job did, except for many reasons I deserve
the tribulation which I have faced.

Please, God, forgive us for our blind spots and errors and continue to
sanctify us.

I forgive everyone <2024-07-24 Wed>.

Please, God, continue to sanctify us.

78.4. Gospel

Amen
youtube.com: The Holy Spirit took over my preaching in Las Vegas and left me
in awe and trembling

  Isaiah 53:4-10 - Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows;
  yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was
  wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him
  was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are
  healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his
  own way; and the LORD (3068. Yhvh - Phonetic Spelling: (yeh-ho-vaw'),
  Meaning: Jehovah) has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed,
  and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth; like a lamb that is led
  to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so
  he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away; and
  as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land
  of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? And they made
  his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death, although he had
  done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will
  of the LORD to crush him; he has put him to grief; when his soul makes an
  offering for sin, he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days;
  the will of the LORD shall prosper in his hand. (ESV)

78.4.1. Christ is a ransom to be offered to all

There is one God, one Mediator. We are called to take this message to the
world. And we definitely should continue to do this:

  I Timothy 2:1-4 - First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers,
  intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all
  who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life,
  godly and dignified in every way. This is good, and it is pleasing in the
  sight of God our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to
  the knowledge of the truth. (ESV)

  I Timothy 2:5-7 - For there is one God, and there is one mediator between
  God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all,
  which is the testimony given at the proper time. For this I was appointed a
  preacher and an apostle (I am telling the truth, I am not lying), a teacher
  of the Gentiles in faith and truth. (ESV)

78.4.2. A universal opportunity to accept Jesus

I believe all people are given an opportunity at some stage in one way or
another to put their faith in Jesus:

  Revelation of John 7:9 - After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude
  that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples
  and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in
  white robes, with palm branches in their hands, (ESV)

Song
youtube.com: Every Nation Tribe And Tongue Music Video 细罗音乐小组 Cada
Nacion, Cada Lengua Adoracion

People still have to put their trust in Jesus when the testimony of Jesus
comes their way / when Jesus is made apparent to them.

  John 12:31-32 - Now is the judgment of this world; now will the ruler of
  this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will
  draw all people to myself. (ESV)

  John 6:40 - For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on
  the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him
  up on the last day. (ESV)

  John 15:22-24 - If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have
  been guilty of sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin. Whoever
  hates me hates my Father also. If I had not done among them the works that
  no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin, but now they have seen
  and hated both me and my Father. (ESV)

  John 8:47 - Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do
  not hear them is that you are not of God. (ESV)

But I have confidence that those who are 'of God' will naturally hear Jesus'
words and they still have to come to believe/trust in Him:

  I John 3:10 - By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who
  are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is
  not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. (ESV)

  John 8:39-42 - They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to
  them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what Abraham did,
  but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard
  from God. This is not what Abraham did. You are doing what your father did.
  They said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one
  Father—even God. Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would
  love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord,
  but he sent me. (ESV)

We still need to believe to avoid condemnation:

  Mark 16:16 - Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever
  does not believe will be condemned. (ESV)

  I John 5:12 - Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son
  of God does not have life. (ESV)

78.5. Prayer of thanks

|  Dear Heavenly Father, Almighty Jehovah God!
|  Your will be done.
|  We praise Your name! We praise You God! And, Lord Jesus Christ, we praise You also.
|  And Holy Spirit, we praise You also!
|  Thank You God for Your mercy!
|  Thank You Father God for making a way for us to be reconciled with You through Your Son Jesus Christ!
|  Thank You Jesus for dying on the cross to pay the price for our sins.
|  Thank You Father God for raising Jesus from the dead!
|  I believe that You've raised Jesus from dead.
|   Please help us to continue carrying out Your great commission.
|   And I'm going to do my best to prepare myself to be holy and blameless for the day of Christ Jesus and to honor You with my life.
|   All glory to You, God.
|   In Jesus Christ's name I pray,
|   AMEN!!

|  Dear Heavenly Father, Jehovah God,
|  Please forgive, me, LORD.
|  Have mercy on me, a sinner!
|  I want to serve You, God.
|  I don't deserve any of Your grace, LORD.
|  Thank You, God, for not condemning me, because Jesus has paid the price for my sin.
|  I believe that. I know it's already paid for.
|  Nevertheless, I live to serve You, God, and to be conformed into the image of Your Son, Jesus Christ.
|  In Jesus Christ's name I pray,
|   AMEN!!

  Romans 3:21-26 - But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart
  from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it— the
  righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For
  there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
  God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that
  is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to
  be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his
  divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his
  righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the
  justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. (ESV)

  Colossians 2:14 - by canceling the record of debt that stood against us
  with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross.

  Revelation of John 1:5 - and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the
  firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. To him who loves us
  and has freed us from our sins by his blood (ESV)

  Philippians 1:9-11 - And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and
  more, with knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve what is
  excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, filled with
  the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory
  and praise of God.

  Hebrews 13:20-21 - Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead
  our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the
  eternal covenant, equip you with everything good that you may do his will,
  working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to
  whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. (ESV)

Download
PDF, TEXT, MARKDOWN, ORG, semiosis.github.io

Date: 2024-12-19 Thu 00:00

Author: Shane Mulligan

Created: 2024-12-19 Thu 20:52

Validate

