Table of Contents

• 1. That being said, it's really important to separate
yourself from people who are deviating from and not
being corrected by the teaching of Christ
• 2. Does God save heretics?
• 3. Marcion of Sinope and followers of Marcion's
heretical teachings
• 4. Valentinus
• 4.1. Refutations
• 4.1.1. Refutation of All Heresies
(Hippolytus)
• 5. Universal religion
• 6. Mixing paganism with Christianity
• 7. WATV - World Mission Society Church of God
• 8. JW
• 8.1. Some thoughts I have to correct JW theology
• 8.1.1. The divine name
• 9. In my independent Bible-Studying, I have not yet
delved into many modern Christian sects
• 10. Free-grace without Lordship salvation
• 11. Lordship salvation without free-grace
• 12. Can other religions exist anywhere in the Kingdom
of God. They have to put their faith in and follow
Jesus
• 12.1. They also have to repent from idolatry
• 12.1.1. Idolatry
• 13. People who twist the Scriptures to seek worldly
prosperity instead of following Jesus

I still think God saves heretics who placed their trusting
faith in Jesus, or placed their trust in God the Father of
Jesus Christ by trusting Jesus, and also the circumcised
who exercise Abrahams works of faith, but it's really His
call - God sees the heart. People's trust in Jesus
exhibits itself in faithfully walking in the light of the
Gospel of Jesus, and Jesus' gospel involved keeping our
eyes on Him, trusting Him, believing Him, obeying Him.

1. That being said, it's really important to separate yourself
from people who are deviating from and not being corrected by
the teaching of Christ

youtube.com: John MacArthur Witnessing to the Cults
It is the nature of every cult to assault in some way the
person of Jesus Christ. You have to take the warning of II
John which says if somebody comes to you and and offers
you something other than the truth about Christ, you don't
want to have anything to do with that person.

It's really important that we continue in the teaching of
Christ and about Christ and allow ourselves to come into
agreement with the teaching of Christ and about Christ.

We should separate ourselves from people who do not
stay/remain/abide in the teaching of Christ and about
Christ. If people do not want to continue in the teaching
of Christ and about Christ, and they do not abide in it,
and do not want to be corrected by the Word of God, then
we should separate ourselves from them.

  II John 1:7-11 - For many deceivers have gone out into
  the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus
  Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the
  antichrist. Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose
  what we have worked for, but may win a full reward.
  Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the
  teaching (1322. didaché) of Christ, does not have God.
  Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and
  the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this
  teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him
  any greeting, for whoever greets him takes part in his
  wicked works. (ESV)

  I John 1:7 - But if we walk in the light, as he is in
  the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the
  blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. (ESV)

2. Does God save heretics?

  II Peter 2:1-2 - But false prophets also arose among the
  people, just as there will be false teachers among you,
  who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even
  denying the Master who bought them, bringing upon
  themselves swift destruction. And many will follow their
  sensuality, and because of them the way of truth will be
  blasphemed. (ESV)

There are some doctrines that are so essential that to
deny them is to not be a Christian:

  I John 4:2 - By this you know the Spirit of God: every
  spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the
  flesh is from God, (ESV)

  I John 2:22 - Who is the liar but he who denies that
  Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, he who
  denies the Father and the Son. (ESV)

  II John 1:7 - For many deceivers have gone out into the
  world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus
  Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the
  antichrist. (ESV)

Polycarp 6:3
For every one who shall not confess that Jesus Christ is
come in the flesh, is antichrist: and whosoever shall not
confess the testimony of the Cross, is of the devil; and
whosoever shall pervert the oracles of the Lord to his own
lusts and say that there is neither resurrection nor
judgment, that man is the firstborn of Satan.

https://www.julianspriggs.co.uk/pages/Marcion

I do not think that the Apostle Paul made an antithesis
between grace and works, but you can read what I have to
say on it in ./README.html:

3. Marcion of Sinope and followers of Marcion's heretical
teachings

Marcion himself probably wasn't saved.

I've noticed some pretty bad heresy floating around the
churches which may come from Marcionism. Sadly it seems,
doctrines of Marcionism seem to be quite prevalent these
days in the church. I personally believe there is no
antithesis between Lordship and Free grace. I think that
probably comes from Marcionism. We are saved to serve God.
The followers of Jesus are able to be taught by Christ and
corrected - they hear Jesus' voice and follow Him - and
that includes repentance (turning away) from sin - it's
Lordship. The Apostle Paul taught Lordship.

Apparently, Marcion perverted teachings of the oracles of
the Lord such as the Apostle Paul, and led many astray.

Polycarp 6:3
For every one who shall not confess that Jesus Christ is
come in the flesh, is antichrist: and whosoever shall not
confess the testimony of the Cross, is of the devil; and
whosoever shall pervert the oracles of the Lord to his own
lusts and say that there is neither resurrection nor
judgment, that man is the firstborn of Satan.

thegospelcoalition.org: Marcion and Getting Unhitched from
the Old Testament

Marcion was one of the most successful heretics in the
early church. He was opposed by everyone who was anyone.

For nearly a century after his death, he was the
arch-heretic, opposed by Polycarp (who called him the
firstborn of Satan), Justin Martyr, Irenaeus, Clement,
Tertullian, Hippolytus, and Origen.

He was one of the few heretics that the Greek and Latin
Christians united in condemning.

After his excommunication, he traveled around the world as
a missionary for his version of Christianity.

And he won a lot of converts.

According to Tertullian, he planted churches as “wasps
make nests,” teaching men “to deny that God is the maker
of all things in heaven and earth and the Christ predicted
by the prophets is his Son.” Marcion’s church was
rigorous, demanding, inspiring, well- organized, and for
about a century fairly successful.

Marcion’s theological errors (and there were many) came
from one main root: he refused to believe that the God of
the Old Testament was the same as the Father of the Lord
Jesus Christ.

Marcion simply could not believe in a God full of wrath
and justice.

So he threw away the Old Testament and took for his Bible
a truncated version of Luke’s Gospel and selectively
edited versions of Paul’s epistles.

When all the cutting and pasting was finished, Marcion had
the Christianity he wanted: a God of goodness and nothing
else a message of inspiring moral uplift a Bible that does
away with the uncomfortable bits about God’s wrath and
hell.

Marcionism was antinomian, idealistic about human
potential, and skittish about dogma and rules.

So yeah, I just rebuke that spirit of Marcionism in Jesus
Christ's name.

4. Valentinus

A Valentinian Exposition

But I think at least they tried to conform to the image of
Christ from what I can divulge, unlike most modern-day
Christians. So, yeah, a lot of modern-day Christianity is
probably even more heretical than Valentinianism to be
honest.

4.1. Refutations

4.1.1. Refutation of All Heresies (Hippolytus)

CHURCH FATHERS: Refutation of All Heresies, Book VI
{Hippolytus}

5. Universal religion

• trying to unite all religions as if they are all equal

6. Mixing paganism with Christianity

  I Corinthians 10:20-22 - No, I imply that what pagans
  sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not
  want you to be participants with demons. You cannot
  drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You
  cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of
  demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we
  stronger than he?

It disgusts me when people pursue paganism, the occult and
demons.

7. WATV - World Mission Society Church of God

• Positives:
• They believe obedience is important to faith.
• Problems:
• They believe the Father is the Son exactly
• They believe in God the Mother
• They believe Gentiles are under the Mosaic law.

8. JW

I have reason to believe that Jesus is not Michael the
Archangel:

  Mark 13:32-33 - But concerning that day or that hour, no
  one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son,
  but only the Father. Be on guard, keep awake. For you do
  not know when the time will come. (ESV)

  John 1:1 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word
  was with God, and the Word was God. (ESV)

There is a way to know for sure that the Son of God is God
without knowing any Greek.

He's not a creature. The Son of God is not a created
being. He wasn't made. All things created were created
through Him:

  John 1:3 - All things were made through him, and without
  him was not any thing made that was made. (ESV)

8.1. Some thoughts I have to correct JW theology

Jesus is God.

  I Timothy 2:1-7 - First of all, then, I urge that
  supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings
  be made for all people, for kings and all who are in
  high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet
  life, godly and dignified in every way. This is good,
  and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior, who
  desires all people to be saved and to come to the
  knowledge of the truth. For there is one God, and there
  is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ
  Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is
  the testimony given at the proper time. For this I was
  appointed a preacher and an apostle (I am telling the
  truth, I am not lying), a teacher of the Gentiles in
  faith and truth. (ESV)

We never proclaim ourself to be God. Never:

  II Thessalonians 2:1-4 - Now concerning the coming of
  our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to
  him, we ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in
  mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or
  a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the
  day of the Lord has come. Let no one deceive you in any
  way. For that day will not come, unless the rebellion
  comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the
  son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself
  against every so-called god or object of worship, so
  that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming
  himself to be God. (ESV)

We must not take the name of the LORD in vain. This is
something I'm concerned about with the JWs' Bible
translation because they seem to be
reinforcing/consolidating their Bible translation using
the LORD's name and where it has errors this is saying,
"thus saith the LORD" regarding their Bible translation:

  Exodus 20:7 - You shall not take the name of the LORD
  your God in vain, for the LORD will not hold him
  guiltless who takes his name in vain. (ESV)

But we must do our best to not misrepresent God:

  Job 42:7 - After the LORD had spoken these words to Job,
  the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite: My anger burns
  against you and against your two friends, for you have
  not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has.
  (ESV)

I think we must also recognise that the LORD is
Jehovah-Jireh and He acts for those who wait for Him - who
put their trust in Him:

What we should do now is acknowledge the LORD, keep our
eyes on Jesus, and live godly lives (godliness is
behaviour in accordance with the knowledge of God, believe
the truth and walk in that truth, love the light, walk in
the light, walk in the truth). Trust in the LORD to save
us as we walk in the light (in obedience):

  Proverbs 3:5-6 - Trust in the LORD with all your heart,
  and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your
  ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your
  paths. (ESV)

At the end of the day it's not what we do for God but what
God has done for us, and continues to do for us that
matters most:

  I John 4:10 - In this is love, not that we have loved
  God but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the
  propitiation for our sins. (ESV)

God acts for those who wait for Him:

  Isaiah 64:4 - From of old no one has heard or perceived
  by the ear, no eye has seen a God besides you, who acts
  for those who wait for him. (ESV)

I have not read all of this, and I can't affirm what I
have not read:

• https://stmarkcharlotte.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/The-Heresy-of-Jevhovah_s-Witness.pdf

The JW believe that the Lord Jesus Christ was assigned as
a son to God in Baptism, which was the beginning of his
second birth.

The Lord Jesus Christ became a spiritual son to God in it,
and a king over the Kingdom of Jehovah. Actually, Baptism
was one of the occasions in which the Father witnessed to
this Sonship saying, “This is My beloved Son, in whom I am
well pleased” (Matthew 3:17):

  Matthew 3:17 - and behold, a voice from heaven said,
  This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.
  (ESV)

Jesus is the Son of God
biblehub.com 1-34.htm: John 1:34 Interlinear: and I have
seen, and have testified, that this is the Son of God.'

John the Baptist also witnessed to this, saying, “And I
have seen and testified that this is the Son of God” (John
| 34):

  John 1:34 - And I have seen and have borne witness that
  this is the Son of God. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 2:9 - But, as it is written, What no eye
  has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined,
  what God has prepared for those who love him— (ESV)

  Isaiah 64:4 - From of old no one has heard or perceived
  by the ear, no eye has seen a God besides you, who acts
  for those who wait for him. (ESV)

Ultimately, it's not about what we can do for God but for
what God has done for us.

Also, I believe that Jesus was from the very beginning
Jehovah's Son.

  John 1:1-2 - In the beginning was the Word, and the Word
  was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the
  beginning with God. (ESV)

AMEN!!

8.1.1. The divine name

Jehovah's Witnesses believe that God's one true name-the
name by which he must be identified-is Jehovah.

I'm with the JW on this. God's name must be remembered.

|  Yhvh: the proper name of the God of Israel
|  Original Word: יהוה
|  Part of Speech: Proper Name
|  Transliteration: Yhvh
|  Phonetic Spelling: (yeh-ho-vaw')
|  Definition: the proper name of the God of Israel

  Exodus 3:15 - God also said to Moses, Say this to the
  people of Israel, The LORD (3068. Yhvh), the God of your
  fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the
  God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name
  forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all
  generations. (ESV)

I think it's important to affirm that this is God's name
to be remembered throughout all generations, however we
are not supposed to misuse the LORD's name.

God is identified by many names, including:

• God (Hb. 'elohim; Gen. 1:1),
• Genesis 1:1 - In the beginning, God created the
heavens and the earth. (ESV)
• God Almighty (Hb. 'El Shadday; Gen. 17:1),
• Genesis 17:1 - When Abram was ninety-nine years
old the LORD appeared to Abram and said to him, I
am God Almighty; walk before me, and be
blameless, (ESV)
• Lord (Hb. 'Adonay; Ps. 8:1), and
• Psalms 8:1 - O LORD, our Lord, how majestic is
your name in all the earth! You have set your
glory above the heavens. (ESV)
• Lord of hosts (Hb. yhwh tseba'ot; 1 Sam. 1:3).
• I Samuel 1:3 - Now this man used to go up year by
year from his city to worship and to sacrifice to
the LORD of hosts at Shiloh, where the two sons
of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were priests of the
LORD. (ESV)

In NT times, Jesus referred to God as "Father" (Gk. Pater;
Matt. 6:9), as did the apostles (1 Cor. 1:3).

  Matthew 6:9 - Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven,
  hallowed be your name. (ESV)

  I Corinthians 1:3 - Grace to you and peace from God our
  Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. (ESV)

I consider that the reason for this is simply in that we
do not take the LORD's name in vain. But we also want the
LORD's name to be remembered.

9. In my independent Bible-Studying, I have not yet delved into
many modern Christian sects

But I find this person's website trustworthy:

./resources/jesusisgodandlordministries.com

https://jesusisgodandlordministries.com/

10. Free-grace without Lordship salvation

This is a problem in Calvinist churches with people
(especially pastors) who don't preach for us to 'do' the
will of God, but merely want God to do it, when Jesus told
His disciples to teach people to obey Him.

Why Do So Many Christians Reject Calvinism? - YouTube

The truth is we are set free from sin to become slaves of
God and the fruit of being a slave to God leads to
sanctification and at its end, eternal life:

  Romans 6:22-23 - But now that you have been set free
  from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you
  get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life.
  For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God
  is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

We must keep ourselves in the love of God by obeying Jesus
Christ's commandments, because we're awaiting to receive
eternal life:

  Jude 1:21 - keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting
  for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to
  eternal life. (ESV)

Keeping Jesus Christ's commandments is a requirement to
inherit eternal life:

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide
  in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments
  and abide in his love. (ESV)

Love for God and an obedient heart is required to be a
child of God:

• God's children love Him, and love Jesus, and the ones
who obey Jesus are the ones who love Him.
• Faith believes Jesus, loves Jesus, and obeys Jesus

Faith:

• Forward action in trusting Him
• This Video Popped Up For A Reason!! GOD WANTS YOU
TO HEAR THIS? - YouTube
• Fear ain't in this house

It's what God has done for us that matters most, not what
we can do for Him. In fact, we can't do anything if we
abide outside of Christ.

  John 15:4-5 - Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch
  cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the
  vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the
  vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I
  in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from
  me you can do nothing. (ESV)

We abide in Christ when He washes us, and this is not our
action but Jesus' action to us:

  John 15:3 - Already you are clean because of the word
  that I have spoken to you. (ESV)

  John 13:8 - Peter said to him, You shall never wash my
  feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have
  no share with me. (ESV)

We must remain in Christ:

  John 15:4 - Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch
  cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the
  vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. (ESV)

Jesus doesn't cast us out:

  John 6:37-39 - All that the Father gives me will come to
  me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. For I
  have come down from heaven, not to do my own will but
  the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him
  who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he
  has given me, but raise it up on the last day. (ESV)

We must accept this teaching:

  John 6:40-47 - For this is the will of my Father, that
  everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should
  have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last
  day. So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, I
  am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is
  not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and
  mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down
  from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among
  yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who
  sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last
  day. It is written in the Prophets, And they will all be
  taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from
  the Father comes to me— not that anyone has seen the
  Father except he who is from God; he has seen the
  Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has
  eternal life. (ESV)

AMEN!!

11. Lordship salvation without free-grace

I think that actually following Jesus is probably superior
to someone who says that they are a follower of Jesus but
doesn't actually follow.

  Matthew 21:28-31 - “But what do you think? A man had two
  sons, and he came to the first and said, ‘Son, go work
  today in the vineyard.’ And he answered, ‘I will not’;
  but afterward he regretted it and went. The man came to
  the second and said the same thing; and he answered, ‘I
  will, sir’; but he did not go. Which of the two did the
  will of his father?” They said, “The first.” Jesus said
  to them, “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and
  prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you.

  Matthew 7:21 - Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord,
  will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does
  the will of my Father who is in heaven. (ESV)

  Luke 15:10 - Just so, I tell you, there is joy before
  the angels of God over one sinner who repents. (ESV)

  Luke 19:9-10 - And Jesus said to him, Today salvation
  has come to this house, since he also is a son of
  Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the
  lost. (ESV)

  II Peter 3:9 - The Lord is not slow to fulfill his
  promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward
  you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all
  should reach repentance. (ESV)

  Matthew 12:50 - For whoever does the will of my Father
  in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. (ESV)

12. Can other religions exist anywhere in the Kingdom of God.
They have to put their faith in and follow Jesus

  John 7:24 - Do not judge by appearances, but judge with
  right judgment. (ESV)

It's not really the religion but who puts their faith in
Jesus and obeys the gospel who will be saved.

Correct Christology is important, but so is obeying Jesus'
commandments, and obeying Jesus' commandments is possibly
even more important than belief:

  Matthew 21:28-31 - “But what do you think? A man had two
  sons, and he came to the first and said, ‘Son, go work
  today in the vineyard.’ And he answered, ‘I will not’;
  but afterward he regretted it and went. The man came to
  the second and said the same thing; and he answered, ‘I
  will, sir’; but he did not go. Which of the two did the
  will of his father?” They said, “The first.” Jesus said
  to them, “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and
  prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you.

We must keep ourselves in the love of God by obeying Jesus
Christ's commandments, because we're awaiting to receive
eternal life:

  Jude 1:21 - keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting
  for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to
  eternal life. (ESV)

Keeping Jesus Christ's commandments is a requirement to
inherit eternal life:

  John 15:10 - If you keep my commandments, you will abide
  in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments
  and abide in his love. (ESV)

Whoever truly believes Jesus trusts in and is obedient to
Jesus. We must obey Jesus Christ, and that obedience means
being a slave of righteousness, leading to sanctification,
which leads to eternal life:

  John 3:36 - Whoever believes in the Son has eternal
  life; whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life,
  but the wrath of God remains on him. (ESV)

Therefore, I don't want to flat-out disqualify people who
do not have precisely the correct doctrine or theology.

Jesus goes to those who hear His voice to bring them into
His flock:

  John 10:16 - And I have other sheep that are not of this
  fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my
  voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. (ESV)

Jesus Christ is God's servant. We are Jesus' servants. It
is a kingdom of servants, obedient to God.

Not all religions are equal. There is only one true God,
the Father of Jesus Christ who has revealed Himself in
Jesus Christ.

The only way is Jesus:

  John 14:6 - Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the
  truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except
  through me. (ESV)

  1 Corinthians 8:5-6 - For although there may be
  so-called gods in heaven or on earth-as indeed there are
  many gods and many lords- yet for us there is one God,
  the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we
  exist, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all
  things and through whom we exist. (ESV)

Jesus Himself is the bread of God - Jesus Himself is the
source of life:

  John 6:33 - For the bread of God is he who comes down
  from heaven and gives life to the world.

  John 6:35 - Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life;
  whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever
  believes in me shall never thirst.

  John 13:34-35 - A new commandment I give to you, that
  you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also
  are to love one another. By this all people will know
  that you are my disciples, if you have love for one
  another. (ESV)

  Galatians 1:6-10 - I am astonished that you are so
  quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of
  Christ and are turning to a different gospel- not that
  there is another one, but there are some who trouble you
  and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we
  or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel
  contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be
  accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again: If
  anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one
  you received, let him be accursed. For am I now seeking
  the approval of man, or of God? Or am I trying to please
  man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not
  be a servant of Christ. (ESV)

  Micah 4:1-13 - It shall come to pass in the latter days
  that the mountain of the house of the LORD shall be
  established as the highest of the mountains, and it
  shall be lifted up above the hills; and peoples shall
  flow to it, and many nations shall come, and say: Come,
  let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house
  of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways and
  that we may walk in his paths. For out of Zion shall go
  forth the law, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
  He shall judge between many peoples, and shall decide
  for strong nations afar off; and they shall beat their
  swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning
  hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation,
  neither shall they learn war anymore; but they shall sit
  every man under his vine and under his fig tree, and no
  one shall make them afraid, for the mouth of the LORD of
  hosts has spoken. For all the peoples walk each in the
  name of its god, but we will walk in the name of the
  LORD our God forever and ever. In that day, declares the
  LORD, I will assemble the lame and gather those who have
  been driven away and those whom I have afflicted; and
  the lame I will make the remnant, and those who were
  cast off, a strong nation; and the LORD will reign over
  them in Mount Zion from this time forth and forevermore.
  And you, O tower of the flock, hill of the daughter of
  Zion, to you shall it come, the former dominion shall
  come, kingship for the daughter of Jerusalem. Now why do
  you cry aloud? Is there no king in you? Has your
  counselor perished, that pain seized you like a woman in
  labor? Writhe and groan, O daughter of Zion, like a
  woman in labor, for now you shall go out from the city
  and dwell in the open country; you shall go to Babylon.
  There you shall be rescued; there the LORD will redeem
  you from the hand of your enemies. Now many nations are
  assembled against you, saying, Let her be defiled, and
  let our eyes gaze upon Zion. But they do not know the
  thoughts of the LORD; they do not understand his plan,
  that he has gathered them as sheaves to the threshing
  floor. Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion, for I will
  make your horn iron, and I will make your hoofs bronze;
  you shall beat in pieces many peoples; and shall devote
  their gain to the LORD, their wealth to the Lord of the
  whole earth. (ESV)

  James 1:26 - If anyone thinks he is religious and does
  not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this
  person's religion is worthless. Religion that is pure
  and undefiled before God, the Father, is this: to visit
  orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep
  oneself unstained from the world.

12.1. They also have to repent from idolatry

  I Thessalonians 1:9-10 - For they themselves report
  concerning us the kind of reception we had among you,
  and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living
  and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom
  he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the
  wrath to come.

  I Corinthians 10:14-31 - Therefore, my beloved, flee
  from idolatry. I speak as to sensible people; judge for
  yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing that we
  bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ?
  The bread that we break, is it not a participation in
  the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who
  are many are one body, for we all partake of the one
  bread. Consider the people of Israel: are not those who
  eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? What do I
  imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or
  that an idol is anything? No, I imply that what pagans
  sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not
  want you to be participants with demons. You cannot
  drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You
  cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of
  demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we
  stronger than he? All things are lawful, but not all
  things are helpful. All things are lawful, but not all
  things build up. Let no one seek his own good, but the
  good of his neighbor. Eat whatever is sold in the meat
  market without raising any question on the ground of
  conscience. For the earth is the Lord's, and the
  fullness thereof. If one of the unbelievers invites you
  to dinner and you are disposed to go, eat whatever is
  set before you without raising any question on the
  ground of conscience. But if someone says to you, This
  has been offered in sacrifice, then do not eat it, for
  the sake of the one who informed you, and for the sake
  of conscience— I do not mean your conscience, but his.
  For why should my liberty be determined by someone
  else's conscience? If I partake with thankfulness, why
  am I denounced because of that for which I give thanks?
  So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all
  to the glory of God.

12.1.1. Idolatry

  Acts 17:29 - Being then God's offspring, we ought not to
  think that the divine being is like gold or silver or
  stone, an image formed by the art and imagination of
  man.

  Romans 1:23 - and exchanged the glory of the immortal
  God for images resembling mortal man and birds and
  animals and reptiles.􄐺

  Psalms 106:20 - They exchanged the glory of God for the
  image of an ox that eats grass.􂉢

13. People who twist the Scriptures to seek worldly prosperity
instead of following Jesus

How Kenneth Copeland Scammed Millions - YouTube

  I Timothy 6:6 - Now there is great gain in godliness
  with contentment, (ESV)

  Acts 8:20 - But Peter said to him, May your silver
  perish with you, because you thought you could obtain
  the gift of God with money! (ESV)

  John 12:6 - He said this, not because he cared about the
  poor, but because he was a thief, and having charge of
  the moneybag he used to help himself to what was put
  into it. (ESV)

  Luke 12:33 - Sell your possessions, and give to the
  needy. Provide yourselves with moneybags that do not
  grow old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not
  fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
  (ESV)

  Luke 9:3 - And he said to them, Take nothing for your
  journey, no staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money; and do
  not have two tunics. (ESV)

  Luke 16:13 - No servant can serve two masters, for
  either he will hate the one and love the other, or he
  will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You
  cannot serve God and money. (ESV)

  Luke 14:26 - If anyone comes to me and does not hate his
  own father and mother and wife and children and brothers
  and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my
  disciple. (ESV)

  II Timothy 3:2 - For people will be lovers of self,
  lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient
  to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, (ESV)

  Matthew 6:24 - No one can serve two masters, for either
  he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be
  devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot
  serve God and money. (ESV)

  Luke 18:25 - For it is easier for a camel to go through
  the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the
  kingdom of God. (ESV)

  Matthew 6:33 - But seek first the kingdom of God and his
  righteousness, and all these things will be added to
  you. (ESV)

God is the Gospel - YouTube @time: 45 min 31 sec

Quote from John Piper
The prosperity gospel is no gospel because what it does is
offer to people what they want as natural people.

Amen to that.

The reason we want to be righteous is so we get God, not
that we become God but that we abide in God.

God is the Gospel - YouTube @time: 40 min 42 sec

Yes, we must be obedient as He is obedient, but that first
act of obedience and the most important one is that we
allow Jesus to wash us. We must believe, Jesus, trust in
Jesus:

  Philippians 2:5-11 - Have this mind among yourselves,
  which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in
  the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing
  to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form
  of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And
  being found in human form, he humbled himself by
  becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a
  cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed
  on him the name that is above every name, so that at the
  name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on
  earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that
  Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
  (ESV)

We must accept this teaching:

  John 6:40-47 - For this is the will of my Father, that
  everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should
  have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last
  day. So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, I
  am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is
  not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and
  mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down
  from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among
  yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who
  sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last
  day. It is written in the Prophets, And they will all be
  taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from
  the Father comes to me— not that anyone has seen the
  Father except he who is from God; he has seen the
  Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has
  eternal life. (ESV)

AMEN!!

Author: root

Created: 2024-11-08 Fri 20:36

Validate

